<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFAJBHFIDUnderstandingDauthenticationDandDauthorization">
   <title>Understanding authentication and authorization –
  AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet uses the industry-standard OAuth protocol to secure
    access to your cloud file system. Let us describe the process
    when you sign up with AppSheet through your Google account. The
    process is similar if your account is through Dropbox, Box,
    etc.</p>
      <p>On sign up on our website, you are redirected to a Google
    page where you are asked if you are willing to authorize
    AppSheet with a requested set of permissions. Here is what you
    are agreeing to and why:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>You let AppSheet verify your identity. This is so that we
      know can associate a unique identity with each user.</li>
      
         <li>You let AppSheet know your email. This is so that we can
      send you email as you create apps.</li>
      
         <li>You let AppSheet read your files and folders. This is so
      that you can select spreadsheets and images to use in the
      app.</li>
      
         <li>You let AppSheet make copies of data into your cloud file
      system and edit that data. This is so that you can make
      copies of apps.</li>
      
         <li>You let AppSheet read and write your spreadsheets. This
      is what it is all about after all.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>We really do not like asking for permissions to your data
    and have worked to try to keep this minimal while still
    providing useful functionality.</p>
      <p>Once you go through the auth process, Google and AppSheet
    use internal identifiers (called access tokens) to allow
    AppSheet software to act on your behalf. To explain this
    simply:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Whenever one of your apps is used, AppSheet has to read
      and write your data from Google. It does this using your
      access token. Your access token is never used with anyone
      else's apps so your data is appropriately protected.</li>
      
         <li>You can completely revoke permissions by going to your
      Google Drive options and disabling AppSheet.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276847-Sign-in-.dita">Sign in</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206532797-Data-access-for-different-classes-of-users.dita">
        Data access for different classes of users</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205091768-Understanding-the-secure-flow-of-data.dita">Understanding
        the secure flow of data</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211330018-Controlling-data-inputs-with-column-constraints.dita">
        Controlling data inputs with column constraints</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>