<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFAJGFIIDWhatDifDIDloseDconnectivityD">
   <title>What if I lose connectivity? – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>If you expect your app to be offline for any non-trivial
    period of time, we strongly recommend configuring the app to
    indicate that it should work offline. AppSheet has platform
    features that explicitly handle this scenario.</p>
      <p>However, even for apps that have not enabled this feature,
    AppSheet is designed to work through transient connectivity
    failures. Mobile apps work in occasionally connected
    environments, and network failures do occur.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>All changes are made locally and are queued up to send
      over the network when you choose to sync.</li>
      
         <li>During Sync, if any changes fail to be propagated, they
      are retried. Our system is designed so that the changes are
      'idempotent'-- this means that even if we mistakenly try to
      apply the same change repeatedly, the result is still
      sensible.</li>
      
         <li>You can keep using the app until you get to a location
      with reliable connectivity and successfully sync your
      changes.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205857777-Errors-and-retry.dita">Errors and
        retry</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205806177-Offline-behavior.dita">Offline
        behavior</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205317858-AppSheet-is-NOT-.dita">AppSheet is
        NOT...</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205973178-App-formulas.dita">App formulas</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>
