<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFAJGJFIDMobileDappsDdrivenDbyDtheDstructureDofDdata">
   <title>Mobile apps 'driven' by the structure of data – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>A mobile app created by AppSheet is completely
    driven by the structure of the data.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>The app can show various pre-defined views of the data.
      As the app creator, you <xref href="205803457-Choosing-and-adding-data-views.dita">specify and
      customize the views shown</xref>.
      </li>
      
         <li>The individual data values are <xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita">presented based on their
      type</xref>. For example, an address is automatically geocoded
      and shown on a map. A phone number can be dialed or texted
      when selected.
      </li>
      
         <li>If the app permits data to be added or updated, it
      automatically generates an <xref href="205803767-Customizing-input-forms.dita">input form based on
      the structure of the data</xref>. Based on the column type, the
      input mechanism is automatically chosen. For example, an
      image column automatically launches a camera.
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>So in short, the app creator defines the structure of data
    and configures the presentation of the data, but all of the
    detailed behaviors of the app are automatically driven by the
    data.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205111288-Traditional-vs-instant-app-deployment.dita">Traditional
        vs. instant app deployment</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205317858-AppSheet-is-NOT-.dita">AppSheet is
        NOT...</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205755287-Mobile-specific-features-in-my-app.dita">Mobile-specific
        features in my app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205755097-Extracting-structure-from-cloud-spreadsheets.dita">
        Extracting structure from cloud spreadsheets</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>
