<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFBHFJCIDAppDupdates">
   <title>App updates – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>As the creator/owner of an app, you can make changes to the
    app definition at any time. These changes take effect
    immediately. For example, if you add a change workflow rule to
    your app, it starts to work the moment you save the change.</p>
      <p>Most of your changes to the app definition involve changes
    in the actual mobile app. These changes are automatically
    picked up by your users the next time they Sync their app from
    their mobile device.</p>
      <p>As described in the section on Sync, it is possible that an
    update to your app definition can disrupt your app users. So
    you should be thoughtful in making certain app updates. Here's
    the scenario. Your app user has one version of your app and
    captures some new data. Before they Sync the data, you make a
    change to the app definition (let's say you change
    some columns in the spreadsheet and regenerate the
    app). Now when your user tries to Sync the change, there is a
    mismatch and AppSheet shows the user an error message. The only
    remedy is for the user to discard the changes (via the Reset
    Changes menu option).</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205938248--Un-deploying-your-app.dita">"Un-deploying" your
        app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205959458-Errors-during-Sync.dita">Errors during
        Sync</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="215789898-How-do-I-make-sure-each-user-sees-only-their-own-data-.dita">
        How do I make sure each user sees only their own data?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206122068-Conditional-formatting.dita">Conditional
        formatting</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205096278-Who-can-discover-and-install-your-app-.dita">Who
        can discover and install your app?</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>