<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFBHGBGIDWhereDisDmyDdataDcachedD">
   <title>Where is my data cached? – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Caching on the
    mobile device</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>By default, AppSheet does not cache spreadsheet data on the
    server. However, for read-only apps, server-side data caching
    significantly improves the speed perceived by app users during
    a Sync-- explained in simple terms, the mobile app can get the
    data directly from AppSheet's servers without having to wait
    for the data to be fetched from the backend cloud storage
    platform (Google Drive, Dropbox, etc). </p>
      <p>By default, AppSheet does cache spreadsheet data on the
    mobile client in order to allow continued app usage despite
    transient loss of network connectivity (for example-- getting
    into an elevator). </p>
      <p>However, full and seamless offline behavior needs to be
    explicitly enabled in the app definition, and these features
    require the Premium subscription plan. By default, AppSheet
    does not cache images and documents that are referenced by the
    spreadsheet data for offline access. You can explicitly require
    AppSheet to cache images and documents by setting the
    appropriate option in your app definition. After you do so,
    image downloads will happen asynchronously during initial app
    load, and subsequently the entire app and its
    image/document content is available offline. </p>
      <p>By default, your device needs to be online to launch an
    AppSheet app from the homescreen icon. Of course, it can then
    function despite transient loss of connectivity. If you
    need the app to launch when offline, this is an option you can
    explicitly set. </p>
      <p>
         <b>These features are set from the Advanced
    Editor&gt;Settings&gt;Content. </b>
      </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Caching on
    the AppSheet Servers</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Your data is never stored on AppSheet's servers.</p>
      <p>The AppSheet web service is an intermediary between the
    mobile app and the backend spreadsheet. Importantly, it does
    NOT have a persistent copy of the spreadsheet so there is no
    danger of your data being compromised via the AppSheet web
    service. There are two caveats to this statement:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>You can optionally ask AppSheet to cache spreadsheet data
      in our service in order to improve performance. If so, this
      data is cached in-memory in our server for up to five minutes
      at a time.</li>
      
         <li>AppSheet caches resized copies of images used by the
      apps. Image resizing is important to conserve network
      bandwidth to mobile devices.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205111158-Displaying-images-and-documents.dita">Displaying
        images and documents</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206532797-Data-access-for-different-classes-of-users.dita">
        Data access for different classes of users</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205178178-Content-caching-on-the-AppSheet-server.dita">Content
        caching on the AppSheet server</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>