<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFBBBBFIDDisplayingDimagesDandDdocuments">
   <title>Displaying images and documents – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Here are some guidelines on using images and documents in
    your app.</p>
      <p>Many applications (e.g. a product catalog or a photo diary)
    use images. Use the Image column type. Likewise, some apps use
    PDF documents. Use the File column type.</p>
      <p>There are two ways to represent an image or document
    in your spreadsheet-- as a URL or as a filename.</p>
      <p>
         <b>If you are providing a URL, please be careful to
    ensure that the URL is publicly accessible!</b> Many
    users who choose this option provide image URLs that appear
    accessible to them, but are not really publicly accessible.
    Here are some examples of <b>bad</b> image URLs:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>An image URL from your Facebook album-- you may be able
      to access the image because you are logged into Facebook, but
      when some other user tries to see the image, they will get an
      error. Whenever you are using an image from some kind of
      online storage provider, make sure that public access
      permissions are provided.</li>
      
         <li>An image URL from your Dropbox or Google Drive-- most
      cloud file systems show you an image on a webpage, but the
      webpage itself is not actually an image. It is a page that
      _hosts_ an image. For example, : <xref href="https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B6H-Xsozi7BgQU04RlVxSDR5VGs/view?usp=sharing.html" scope="external" format="html">
        https://drive.google.com/file/d/{fileId}/view</xref> is
        an image hosting page on Google Drive, but the actual image
        URL
        is https://drive.google.com/uc?export=view&amp;id={fileId}
      </li>
      
         <li>An image URL from your local computer-- of the form
      file://MyImages/MyImage.jpg or C:/MyImages/MyImage.jpg.
      AppSheet has no access to your local computer, nor do you
      have the option to 'upload' an image to AppSheet. Instead,
      place your images in your cloud storage provider and use one
      of the mechanisms described above.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>If you want to use a filename, it must be stored in your
    cloud file system, not on your desktop!</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>In the app editors, we provide a file selector widget
      that lets you browse your cloud file system to find an
      image.</li>
      
         <li>If you are specifying an image or document file name in
      your spreadsheet, the file should be in the same folder
      location as your spreadsheet. For example, if you use Google
      Drive and your spreadsheet is in the /appsheet/data/MyApp
      folder, then if you have the image 'MyImage.jpg' in the same
      folder, you can just use the value 'MyImage.jpg' in the
      appropriate cell.</li>
      
         <li>It is sometimes easier to organize images in their own
      folder. For that reason, we allow image file names to be
      specified relative to the location of the spreadsheet. For
      example, if your images are in a subfolder called 'Images',
      you can use the cell value 'Images/MyImage.jpg' or
      './Images/MyImage.jpg'.
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>For apps that want to exclusively work with small thumbnail
    images, we also provide a Thumbnail column type. However,
    AppSheet does not currently automatically detect the difference
    between a regular image and a thumbnail. To explicitly choose
    the Thumbnail type, please use our Advanced Editor, as
    described in this document. To see an example of the use of
    thumbnails, look at the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/An-app-for-a-marketing-team-to-access-customer-case-studies-on-and-offline?appGuidString=2018fca7-8a19-49b9-a10b-7f53a05b7125.html" scope="external" format="html">
    Marketing Docs sample</xref>.</p>
      <p>See this <xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093333.html" scope="external" format="html">Google
    Sheets article</xref> if you need assistance with image
    sizing.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803527-Capturing-images-and-documents.dita">Capturing
        images and documents</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803487-Reflecting-your-brand.dita">Reflecting
        your brand</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita">Column types</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205843908-Capturing-GPS-location.dita">Capturing
        GPS location</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096807-Specifying-a-key.dita">Specifying a
        key</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>