<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFBBDJHIDAppsDusingDdates">
   <title>Apps using dates – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>If your data uses dates or timestamps, there are some
    special considerations to keep in mind.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Dates in
    spreadsheets</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>Date formats vary widely across languages and locales. So it
    is really important that you use the cell formatting capability
    of the spreadsheet to indicate that all the cells of a column
    are Date values. You can utilize dates and times in your local
    format.</p>
      <p>If your data column in the source spreadsheet is formatted
    as a Date or Time with a specific format (eg: DD/MM/YYYY) we
    respect that format when your changes are stored back in the
    spreadsheet.</p>
      <p>Many spreadsheets use automatic mechanisms to add a
    timestamp in the first column. A timestamp is generally a poor
    choice for a key-- though it uniquely identifies the row, the
    timestamp isn't really meaningful to the rest of the app. So if
    the timestamp is chosen as your key, you may need to change
    that explicitly.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Dates in
    apps</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Dates and times in AppSheet apps are shown in the
    appropriate locale-specific format.</p>
      <p>If you're seeing the wrong date format on your mobile device
    or browser, make sure your system and browser language is
    correct. US English date format is different than non-US
    English format.</p>
      <p>Change your language on Android: <xref href="https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/32047?source=gsearch&amp;hl=en.html" scope="external" format="html">
    https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/32047?source=gsearch&amp;hl=en</xref>
      </p>
      <p>Change your language on iPhone / iPad: <xref href="https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204031.html" scope="external" format="html">https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204031</xref>
      </p>
      <p>Change your language on Chrome: <xref href="https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/173424?hl=en.html" scope="external" format="html">https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/173424?hl=en</xref>
      </p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205319058-Using-formats-and-data-validation-rules.dita">Using
        formats and data validation rules</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="210916177-Locale-support-in-AppSheet.dita">Locale
        support in AppSheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211330018-Controlling-data-inputs-with-column-constraints.dita">
        Controlling data inputs with column constraints</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803467-Presentation-types.dita">Presentation
        types</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>