<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFBBDICIDMakingDanDAppSheetDfriendlyDspreadsheet">
   <title>Making an "AppSheet-friendly" spreadsheet – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>You can control column structure by changing your
    spreadsheet.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use the first worksheet-- by default, AppSheet only uses
      the first worksheet of your spreadsheet file. And it only
      extracts one structured 'table' of data from that
      spreadsheet. So it is important that you put the appropriate
      data in the first worksheet. Note that AppSheet apps can
      utilize multiple spreadsheet files, a feature described in
      the Advanced Editor section. Also as described in that
      section, you can explicitly specify a worksheet other than
      the first worksheet, if necessary.
      </li>
      
         <li>Just header + data please-- you could put almost any
      content in a spreadsheet, including charts, pictures, free
      form text, etc. However, if the data isn't obviously tabular,
      AppSheet will probably fail to extract a tabular column
      structure. Ideally make the first row contain column headers
      and the rest of the rows contain data.
      </li>
      
         <li>Provide data for column type deduction-- if possible,
      provide at least 5-10 rows of actual data in the spreadsheet.
      This allows AppSheet to look at the data and deduce their
      types. For example, if every row of a column had an entry
      that looks like 'something.jpg', AppSheet can recognize that
      this is an Image. However, users sometimes start with a blank
      spreadsheet and that leads AppSheet to make poor guesses.
      </li>
      
         <li>Use data formats consistently, as described in <xref href="205319168-Effective-use-of-column-headers.dita">the next
      article</xref>. 
        
      </li>
      
         <li>Use spreadsheet data validation rules where appropriate,
      as described in <xref href="205319058-Using-formats-and-data-validation-rules.dita">a
      later article</xref>.
        
      </li>
      
         <li>Provide data for key identification, as described in
      <xref href="206096807-Specifying-a-key.dita">a separate
      article</xref>.
        
      </li>
      
         <li>If AppSheet still doesn't quite get the column structure
      right, you can tweak it in the <xref href="206559378.dita">Advanced Editor</xref>.
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <xref href="http://blog.appsheet.com/2014/12/03/5-tips-for-building-better-spreadsheets-for-your-appsheet-mobile-apps/.html" scope="external" format="html">
    Read a detailed blog post about structuring your
    spreadsheets.</xref>
      </p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096807-Specifying-a-key.dita">Specifying a
        key</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206559378-Advanced-app-customizations.dita">Advanced app
        customizations</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205973178-App-formulas.dita">App formulas</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>