<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFDBHIFIDAppSheetDisDNOTD">
   <title>AppSheet is NOT... – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet is not an app discovery mechanism. It is not a
    place where your users can "discover" the apps that you create.
    That is the traditional role of an app store.</p>
      <p>Instead, we leave it to you to distribute the apps to your
    users. Most of our app creators are building apps for their
    colleagues, their employees, or their existing customers. In
    those cases there is already an obvious mechanism to
    distribute the app to the desired users. Because all you need
    is an installation link, it becomes trivial to distribute this
    link via email or any other communication mechanism.</p>
      <p>AppSheet is also not an app marketplace. It is not a place
    where users buy apps or app creators sell apps. Again, that
    would be the role of an app store, but that is not the role of
    AppSheet. We are not involved in any commerce related to the
    apps themselves. Instead, we are providing a platform service
    for users to create, deploy, and run apps. </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205754997-Who-should-use-AppSheet-and-what-kind-of-apps-can-it-create-.dita">
        Who should use AppSheet and what kind of apps can it
        create?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205755287-Mobile-specific-features-in-my-app.dita">Mobile-specific
        features in my app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206559378-Advanced-app-customizations.dita">Advanced app
        customizations</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276847-Sign-in-.dita">Sign in</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>