<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHGJBGIDBox">
   <title>Box – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Box.com users tend to have corporate accounts and see a
    greater incidence of two specific kinds of errors. One error
    occurs when copying a sample app or making a new app. By
    default, AppSheet creates a folder for each app under the
    /appsheet/data path, so that the sample spreadsheet and data
    can be copied into it. In many corporate Box installations,
    users do not have permissions to create a folder in this path.
    Instead, each user (say 'joe') has permissions to a path that
    may be '/users/joe'. So you will need to change the default
    folder path for your AppSheet account appropriately by
    accessing the 'Account' tab on the top bar of our website. The
    other error reported by some of our Box users is that Excel
    spreadsheet files seem to be automatically converted into CSV
    files on some Box installations. Users can check this by just
    trying to download the Excel file from Box to see if its format
    has been modified -- if so, please consult with your Box
    admin.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769178-Smartsheet.dita">Smartsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205754997-Who-should-use-AppSheet-and-what-kind-of-apps-can-it-create-.dita">
        Who should use AppSheet and what kind of apps can it
        create?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="215789898-How-do-I-make-sure-each-user-sees-only-their-own-data-.dita">
        How do I make sure each user sees only their own data?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="215724197-Including-PDF-s-in-your-application.dita">Including
        PDF's in your application</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>