<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHFCCIHDGeneralDconcepts">
   <title>General concepts – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>App security matters because your data is exposed through
    your app. While we follow sound technical practices like
    encrypting all network communication, you have three simple and
    understandable mechanisms to control the security of your
    app.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Distribution control-- AppSheet is not an app store. We
      do not let others search for your app or find it in any way.
      You distribute your app to the users that you choose.</li>
      
         <li>Access control-- you can require the users of your app to
      sign in, and can specify a whitelist of users who have
      permissions to access the app. If you do this, nobody else
      can access the app.</li>
      
         <li>Data control-- you can control the subset of data that is
      visible in the app, and control whether and how it can be
      updated. Even for the users who can access your app, this
      limits what they can see and do.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205091758-Understanding-authentication-and-authorization.dita">
        Understanding authentication and authorization</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205091768-Understanding-the-secure-flow-of-data.dita">Understanding
        the secure flow of data</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205857667-Run-mode-as-app-creator-or-app-user.dita">Run
        mode-- as app creator or app user</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206532797-Data-access-for-different-classes-of-users.dita">
        Data access for different classes of users</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>