<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHGJCFIDTheDappDisDnotDrunnable">
   <title>The app is not runnable – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>You may see this error in the app emulator (in the editor
    web page) or your users may see this error on a mobile
    device. </p>
      <p>It indicates that the app definition is invalid (most
    likely) or corrupt (rare).</p>
      <p>The most likely reason for an app definition to become
    invalid is that the structure of the spreadsheet used to create
    the app changed. For example, someone added or deleted a
    column. Now the spreadsheet is no longer compatible with the
    app. Every time you open the app in the app editor, or refresh
    the app editor web page, AppSheet rechecks this and alerts you
    with error messages if the app definition is invalid. In many
    cases, AppSheet wil automatically adjust the app to make it
    runnable again. However, this does not happen unless the app
    creator actually opens the app editor --- i.e. it requires an
    intentional action by the app creator. </p>
      <p>AppSheet will also consider an app definition as invalid if
    the underlying spreadsheets are no longer readable (if the data
    cannot be read, then clearly the app cannot be verified let
    alone run).</p>
      <p>On a mobile device, an app definition may be corrupted if a
    network error occurs while the app definition is being
    downloaded (initially or during a sync). This is a relatively
    rare event and usually is resolved with a restart or resync. In
    rare cases, you may need to uninstall and reinstall
    AppSheet.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206951007-Application-crashes-errors.dita">Application
        crashes / errors</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769208-Errors-accessing-a-spreadsheet.dita">Errors
        accessing a spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769278-Plan-upgrade-required.dita">Plan upgrade
        required</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207277097-Deploy-your-app.dita">Deploy your
        app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>