<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHFFCIHDMobileDspecificDfeaturesDinDmyDapp">
   <title>Mobile-specific features in my app – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>You should not expect to see a spreadsheet in your app. Your
    spreadsheet is only a data source. You are creating an app
    optimized for a mobile device in four ways: data presentation,
    data capture, offline use, and branding.</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Mobile devices have limited screen sizes, so each data
      row is presented using mobile-optimized patterns.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Most data views are summary views that expand to show the
      full details when an entry is clicked/tapped.</li>
      
         <li>In summary views, we always show the key value and as
      many other columns as possible.</li>
      
         <li>Actionable values (that launch actions when you tap them)
      like phone numbers and emails are preferentially shown.</li>
      
         <li>Columns on the left of the spreadsheet are considered
      more important than columns on the right.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Mobile-appropriate input controls are provided for
      different column data types.</li>
      
         <li>
        
            <ul>
          
               <li>If there is an Image column, it is populated by
          taking a photo with the camera.</li>
          
               <li>Signatures can be captured on the touch screen.
          <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/SimpleDef?appName=DeliveryTrack-10305.html" scope="external" format="html">
            See how the signature feature works in our Delivery
            Tracking sample app.</xref>
          
               </li>
          
               <li>Enumerated types (defined by data validation lists in
          the spreadsheet) get a dropdown list to choose from.</li>
        
            </ul>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>Each app can be branded in a variety of ways, including
      with a logo. When you distribute your app to your users, you
      will control the brand experience for your users.</li>
      
         <li>Apps that require connectivity and constantly utilize the
      network significantly reduce battery life. AppSheet apps are
      designed for offline access with only occasional
      synchronization over the network. The data used by the app
      therefore is cached locally on the device. This does
      constrain the volume of data that can be used in an app-- for
      this reason, in the current version of AppSheet, avoid
      extremely large spreadsheets. All updates on the device are
      made locally and pushed to the backend spreadsheet only
      during synchronization.</li>
      
         <li>
        
            <p> </p>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205317858-AppSheet-is-NOT-.dita">AppSheet is
        NOT...</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206559368-Create-an-app.dita">Create an app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205755097-Extracting-structure-from-cloud-spreadsheets.dita">
        Extracting structure from cloud spreadsheets</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205113918-Controlling-data-updates.dita">Controlling data
        updates</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>