<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHFFAJHDExtractingDstructureDfromDcloudDspreadsheets">
   <title>Extracting structure from cloud spreadsheets – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Most interesting apps show and capture data. Traditionally,
    apps built by software developers use proprietary mechanisms to
    store data in structured databases. AppSheet avoids this
    approach for two reasons: (1) <b>our app creators are not
    software developers</b>, (2) <b>we want our app
    creators to be in full control of their data</b>.</p>
      <p>Instead AppSheet apps use data from spreadsheets.
    Spreadsheets allow almost anyone to organize and store data. In
    later sections, we'll describe how you can also access data
    from other sources, but for now, let's focus on
    spreadsheets.</p>
      <p>
         <b>AppSheet cannot access data from a spreadsheet on
    your PC</b>, but it can access data from a spreadsheet
    stored in a cloud file system like Google Drive or Dropbox. To
    explain it really simply, AppSheet makes your cloud-hosted
    spreadsheet behave like a simple database. The power of using a
    cloud-hosted spreadsheet is that there are no copies of your
    data created, nor is the data 'uploaded' into AppSheet servers.
    Instead, AppSheet reads and writes directly to your
    spreadsheet.</p>
      <p>AppSheet automatically infers the structure of your data
    from the spreadsheet you provide. AppSheet models a data set as
    a 'table'-- i.e. a collection of rows with uniformly structured
    columns. Each spreadsheet is treated as a single 'table'.</p>
      <p>For each column, AppSheet infers a data type, such as text,
    number, date, etc. There are more than 20 data types
    recognized. AppSheet also automatically groups related columns
    to form composite columns-- eg: [FirstName and LastName], or
    [Street, City, State]. These inferences happen automatically
    but of course, they may not always make the right decision, so
    you can always override and fine tune these choices.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205096958-Mobile-apps-driven-by-the-structure-of-data.dita">
        Mobile apps 'driven' by the structure of data</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205317858-AppSheet-is-NOT-.dita">AppSheet is
        NOT...</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205754997-Who-should-use-AppSheet-and-what-kind-of-apps-can-it-create-.dita">
        Who should use AppSheet and what kind of apps can it
        create?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205755287-Mobile-specific-features-in-my-app.dita">Mobile-specific
        features in my app</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>