<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHGJCHIDPlanDupgradeDrequired">
   <title>Plan upgrade required – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet has different subscription plans as described on
    the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/home/pricing.html" scope="external" format="html">Pricing
    page</xref>.</p>
      <p>
         <b>All</b> basic app functionality is
    available for free for prototypes and purely personal use. All
    use in business and professional settings requires a paid plan.
    All the same, every app feature and behavior can be
    tested for free until you are ready to deploy. In short, your
    app will function even if you haven't yet selected a plan.
    <b>If features of your app do not work, it is not
    because of the plan you are on.</b> Of course, it is good
    karma to be on the right plan, and good karma always helps.
    :-)</p>
      <p>The app editor indicates that certain app
    behaviors (eg: security, offline, content optimization,
    team collaboration, etc.) always require paid plans. When your
    app definition enables these features, AppSheet knows for sure
    that you are not building an app as a prototype or for personal
    use. The use of these features may lead to a warning message
    that tells you that a plan upgrade is required. Even if you are
    not using these features, if your app is used in a business
    setting, you should be on a paid subscription plan.</p>
      <p>The per-user subscription plans involve a variable cost
    component depending on the number of unique users of the app.
    AppSheet monitors this usage and you, the app creator, can see
    approximate historical usage statistics for each of your apps
    on the Activity tab of your Account page. At the current
    moment, AppSheet does not warn you when the user limits are
    reached, but will do so in the future.</p>
      <p>We do not ever plan to prevent access to the app if
    the user limits are reached -- rather, we expect to record and
    warn the app creator of this situation. However, the preferred
    route is for the app creator to anticipate and purchase
    the appropriate plan based on the expected usage. </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803487-Reflecting-your-brand.dita">Reflecting
        your brand</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205113868-Errors-and-warnings-in-the-editor.dita">Errors
        and warnings in the editor</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205806177-Offline-behavior.dita">Offline
        behavior</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita">Column types</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>