<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHGJCAIDErrorsDaccessingDaDspreadsheet">
   <title>Errors accessing a spreadsheet – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet can experience errors reading or writing
    spreadsheet data from any cloud storage provider. </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Error 401 -- this occurs when AppSheet does not have
      permission to work on behalf of the user.</li>
      
         <li>Error 403 (permission denied) -- this occurs when
      AppSheet tries to access your spreadsheet, but the storage
      provider responds that AppSheet does not have the permission
      to access it. </li>
      
         <li>Error 404 (cannot access the spreadsheet) -- this occurs
      when AppSheet tries to access your spreadsheet but the
      storage provider responds that no such document exists.
      Perhaps you have deleted the document? Perhaps you never had
      access to it?</li>
      
         <li>Timeout -- occasionally, the remote storage provider has
      a timeout and fails to provide the spreadsheet data to
      AppSheet despite repeated retries. Although fewer than
      1% of our requests encounter such issues, it is still
      significant enough that you may encounter such a problem. You
      may experience this problem as an unexpected delay during
      Sync, or even a sync failure. Typically a refresh or retry
      after a few seconds rectifies the problem.</li>
      
         <li>Error 500 (internal server error)  -- very
      occasionally, the remote storage provider has an
      internal error and fails to provide the spreadsheet data to
      AppSheet. Typically this is a transient problem and often is
      hidden from our users because we automatically retry the
      request. </li>
    
      </ul>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206483017-Google-Drive.dita">Google Drive</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769278-Plan-upgrade-required.dita">Plan upgrade
        required</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207277097-Deploy-your-app.dita">Deploy your
        app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205106268-Using-a-scanner.dita">Using a
        scanner</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>