<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHFEIAHDConcurrentDusageDwithDmultipleDusers">
   <title>Concurrent usage with multiple users – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Apps built with AppSheet are meant for multiple concurrent
    users. This leads to the natural question -- how do we deal
    with multiple people updating the data?</p>
      <p>The simple rule is that 'the last writer wins'.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>The changes of each user are isolated until a sync
      occurs. At this point, AppSheet attempts to replay the user's
      changes in order against the backend spreadsheet.</li>
      
         <li>The unit of change is a single row. Many applications
      partition well so that no two users update the same row.</li>
      
         <li>If two users happen to change the same row, the last
      user's change is what persists. In fact, someone could also
      update the data directly in the backend spreadsheet. This is
      treated no differently from any other data update.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>There are three cases during sync when this behavior is
    exposed to users of your app:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>If the user adds a row but a row with the same key
      already exists, then that row is <i>updated</i> with the
      new data.</li>
      
         <li>If the user deletes a row but no row with that key
      exists, then that change is ignored.</li>
      
         <li>If the user edits a row but no row with that key exists,
      then that change is ignored because clearly some other user
      explicitly deleted it first.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206532797-Data-access-for-different-classes-of-users.dita">
        Data access for different classes of users</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803977-Transferring-app-ownership-to-another-user.dita">
        Transferring app ownership to another user</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096807-Specifying-a-key.dita">Specifying a
        key</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205175228-Modifying-column-structure-in-the-editor.dita">Modifying
        column structure in the editor</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>