<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFHFEJJHDWhoDshouldDuseDAppSheetDandDwhatDkindDofDappsDcanDitDcreateD">
   <title>Who should use AppSheet and what kind of apps can it create?
  – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet allows anyone to create elegant, powerful, and
    useful applications for business, professional, or personal
    needs.</p>
      <p>If you are computer savvy and use online tools to manage
    your life and work, AppSheet is meant for you, and hundreds of
    millions of others like you.</p>
      <p>It generally takes complex programming to build useful
    applications. However, AppSheet enables a limited but important
    subset of apps-- those that follow a simple data-driven
    pattern. The behavior of an AppSheet app is almost completely
    determined by the structure of your data. That's why you can
    build an app without writing any code.</p>
      <p>You can build apps for project management, field operations,
    customer service, team collaboration, task management,
    staffing, and so much more. </p>
      <p>AppSheet apps are designed to work offline-- you can control
    and enable various aspects of online behavior.</p>
      <p>
         <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/template/Gallery.html" scope="external" format="html">Check out some
    of our samples.</xref>
      </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205755097-Extracting-structure-from-cloud-spreadsheets.dita">
        Extracting structure from cloud spreadsheets</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205317858-AppSheet-is-NOT-.dita">AppSheet is
        NOT...</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206559368-Create-an-app.dita">Create an app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207765117-How-should-I-use-multiple-sheets-in-my-app-.dita">
        How should I use multiple sheets in my app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205111288-Traditional-vs-instant-app-deployment.dita">Traditional
        vs. instant app deployment</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>