<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIFHHHHDErrorsDandDretry">
   <title>Errors and retry – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Mobile apps must account for failure to send updates to the
    backend. There are multiple reasons for failure:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Your mobile device may have connectivity issues.</li>
      
         <li>We hate to say this, but AppSheet's servers could have
      occasional connectivity or downtime issues.</li>
      
         <li>Your cloud file system (eg: Google Drive) can have
      occasional connectivity or downtime issues.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>These are the realities of working in a mobile-to-cloud
    environment where changes from the app have to be recorded at
    the backend cloud service. Yet any data captured by the app
    should never be lost.</p>
      <p>AppSheet accomplishes this using three basic mechanisms
    (none of which you need to do anything to configure-- it just
    happens automatically):</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>All changes are recorded locally on the device. Even if
      the device shuts down and restarts, the changes are still
      available. Of course, if the device is lost or destroyed
      before you sync, those changes are gone forever.</li>
      
         <li>When data is synced from the app, it travels to the
      AppSheet backend, and then on to the backend spreadsheet, and
      then the acknowledgment of success has to flow back all the
      way to the mobile app. If this does not happen in a timely
      fashion, the user sees an error message. Importantly, the
      change is queued up for a subsequent retry. If the user syncs
      again, the change gets sent again.</li>
      
         <li>Of course, now we could have the situation where the same
      change is attempted multiple times (because perhaps the
      success acknowledgment failed to reach the app, though the
      update was successfully applied). All AppSheet updates are
      designed to be 'idempotent'-- i.e. you can apply them
      repeatedly without a change in behavior.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>There is one other situation where errors occur-- when the
    app creator changes the app definition by adding or removing
    columns, but some user of the app still has the old version of
    the app and has unsynced updates on that app. Unfortunately,
    when there is a structure mismatch between the updates and the
    app definition, the updates fail. Retries will continue to
    fail. More details on handling this situation are provided
    <xref href="205959458-Errors-during-Sync.dita">here</xref>.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205754807-Concurrent-usage-with-multiple-users.dita">Concurrent
        usage with multiple users</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205959458-Errors-during-Sync.dita">Errors during
        Sync</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205096588-What-if-I-lose-connectivity-.dita">What
        if I lose connectivity?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769208-Errors-accessing-a-spreadsheet.dita">Errors
        accessing a spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096807-Specifying-a-key.dita">Specifying a
        key</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>