<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIADEGHDPresentationDtypes">
   <title>Presentation types – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet supports five presentation views-- <b>list,
    image gallery, map, chart,</b> and
    <b>form</b>.
    
    All of the views show a 'summary' view of the data with the
    ability to drill into a 'detailed' view of one specific entry.
    As with other aspects of AppSheet, the platform automatically
    generates most of the UX and the app creator guides the outcome
    primarily be changing the structure of the data.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
            <b>List</b>-- this is the default view of
      tabular data. There are three display styles to
      choose from:
      </li>
      
         <li>Tabular: each row is showed in a compact representation.
      Tapping or clicking on a row expands it to show all the
      details. An extra option specifies the column to sort the
      data on. You can choose to sort the data in ascending or
      descending order.</li>
      
         <li>Grouped: rows are grouped together based on the value in
      the grouping column specified. Within each group, the data is
      shown using the tabular view and sorted based on the order of
      data in the underlying spreadsheet.</li>
      
         <li>Deck: this is a special presentation for data that has an
      image column. The data is displayed as a stack of 'cards',
      and clicking on any of them expands the card and its image.
      The deck view allows for round and square image
      presentations. </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/SimpleDef?appName=Recruiting-10305.html" scope="external" format="html">
    See how lists work in our Recruiting sample app.</xref>
      </p>
      <p>2. <b>Gallery</b>-- this is the default view of
    data that has an image or thumbnail image column. The content
    is shown in a 'summary' view as an image gallery where each
    image is annotated with the row key. Clicking on any image
    opens up a full screen 'details' view of the image along with
    the other row columns. Once in the full screen details view,
    the user can swipe left or right to move to adjacent rows. This
    presentation has three sub-options that control the size of the
    images shown in the summary view:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Small: appropriate for thumbnail images.</li>
      
         <li>Medium: fits two images side by side on a phone
      screen.</li>
      
         <li>Large: shows large images full-width with a vertical
      scroll.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>As with the List view, you can choose a column to sort the
    order of presentation of the data. <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/SimpleDef?appName=ProductCatalog-10305.html" scope="external" format="html">
    See how the gallery works in our Product Catalog sample
    app.</xref>
      </p>
      <p>3. <b>Map</b>-- the map view only makes sense if
    you have an Address column. When you choose the Map view,
    AppSheet automatically picks up the data from your Address
    column, geocodes those addresses, and shows them on a map.
    <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/AppDef?appName=ContactDirectory-10305.html" scope="external" format="html">
    See how maps work in our Contact Directory sample app.</xref>
      </p>
      <p>
         <xref href="http://blog.appsheet.com/2014/11/19/use-the-map-view-feature-to-visualize-addresses-in-your-app/.html" scope="external" format="html">
    Read a detailed blog post about the map feature.</xref>
      </p>
      <p>4. <b>Chart</b>-- we support a number of different
    chart presentations. In general, charting is a complex topic.
    As the designer of a chart, you typically have to make three
    choices:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>How many individual series 'lines' do you draw?</li>
      
         <li>What values are on the X and Y axes?</li>
      
         <li>What chart display type do you use-- line, bar chart,
      etc.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>We have tried to keep it simple by limiting the possible
    answers for each of these choices:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Row Series chart-- this is appropriate for spreadsheet
      data where most of the data is numeric on a uniform scale
      (eg: monthly sales data). Every row forms a series, each of
      which is identified by the row key. You choose a subset of
      the column names that will be charted on the X axis. The Y
      axis is based on the numeric values in the row cells. You can
      choose a line chart, a bar chart, or a stacked bar chart as
      the display type. A good example of a Row Series chart is the
      'By Month' view in the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/ShowDef?appName=DataInsight-10305.html" scope="external" format="html">
        Sales Report sample.</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>Column Series chart-- this is appropriate for spreadsheet
      data with just a few rows corresponding to items to compare
      (eg: monthly sales data by category). Every column forms a
      series, each of which is identified by the column name. Each
      row (using its row key column) forms one entry on the X axis.
      The Y axis is based on the numeric values in the row cells.
      You can choose a line chart, a bar chart or a stacked bar
      chart as the display type. A good example of a Column Series
      chart is the 'By Type' view in the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/ShowDef?appName=DataInsight-10305.html" scope="external" format="html">
        Sales Report sample.</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>Histogram-- this is a special kind of bar chart to show
      aggregate distributions. For example, if you want to see the
      number of customers who purchased each automobile model, you
      specify the column whose values will be aggregated. The X
      axis gets one entry for each unique value in this column and
      the Y axis shows the count of the number of rows that have
      that value in that column.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>5: <b>Form</b>-- Your apps give you the
    ability to capture signatures, photos, and location
    services.You can use AppSheet for Google Forms to both
    distribute forms through a mobile app as well as use a mobile
    app to view and interact with form responses. But if you're
    only using your app to distribute forms, you probably don't
    want your app showing each user's response, and instead have
    each new user simply be able to fill out a new form with the
    app.</p>
      <p>To do this, click the UX tab in either editor. In the Basic
    Editor, choose 'form' from the dropdown list of presentation
    view types. In the Advanced Editor, click the UX tab, then
    'Controls'. From there choose 'form' from the dropdown list of
    presentation view types under the Action field.</p>
      <p>New guests to the form will only be able to fill out a new
    form and will not see entries made by previous users.</p>
      <p>AppSheet also helps you unlock mobile-specific features for
    your Forms that the web cannot capture. Your apps give you the
    ability to capture signatures, photos, and location
    services.</p>
      <p>6. <b>Deck</b>-- A view that displays a large
    image on the left, in your choice of either a
    round, square, or full presentation, with the most
    important information on the right and any action buttons that
    correspond to your field types. </p>
      <p>7. <b>Table</b>-- This presentation is best with
    handling large data sets with many rows. </p>
      <p>Over time, we will add more chart types, while trying to
    keep the concepts simple.</p>
      <p>
         <b>
            <xref href="http://blog.appsheet.com/2014/12/10/4-types-of-views-to-enhance-your-appsheet-apps/.html" scope="external" format="html">
    Read a detailed blog post about presentation
    types.</xref>
         </b>
      </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205669318-How-do-I-control-the-order-of-rows-displayed-in-my-app-.dita">
        How do I control the order of rows displayed in my app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206122068-Conditional-formatting.dita">Conditional
        formatting</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207340097-How-do-I-control-the-order-of-columns-displayed-in-the-app-.dita">
        How do I control the order of columns displayed in the
        app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206435467-Multi-page-forms-with-conditional-branching.dita">
        Multi-page forms with conditional branching</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>