<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIAGBHHDOfflineDbehavior">
   <title>Offline behavior – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet apps are designed for offline function. There are
    four elements to offline behavior as described below, and
    they are controlled by the app creator. AppSheet apps can
    work offline because the information needed to run the app (the
    app definition, the data, and optionally images)
    is maintained locally on the mobile device.</p>
      <p>
         <b>One important pre-condition for all offline access
    is that the app must initially be launched on the device when
    it is online.</b> The process of launching the app on the
    device causes the appropriate information to be downloaded and
    cached locally.</p>
      <p>Offline behavior is controlled via the Advanced
    Editor&gt;Settings&gt;Content tab. The use of these
    features does require the Premium subscription plan.
    </p>
      <p>
         <b>Delayed sync</b>: 'Sync' is the step that sends
    data updates from the device to the backend and brings back the
    latest app definition and data from the backend. If you choose
    Delayed Sync for your app, it indicates that the app will not
    sync data immediately when a new edit/delete/add occurs.
    Rather, it will just be queued up until you explicitly choose
    to sync. You should select this option for apps that are
    expected to work in offline environments or where you want to
    control the use of data bandwidth on the device.</p>
      <p>
         <b>Intermittent connectivity</b>: Apps that
    don't enable Delayed Sync will synchronize changes every time
    that data changes on the device. However, there may be
    connectivity issues that prevent this from happening. Even in a
    mostly connected environment, there can be intermittent network
    outages. If such failures occur, AppSheet automatically queues
    up the changes that fail to send-- in other words, the app will
    default to a delayed sync behavior if the attempt to sync
    fails. This is the default behavior and prevents loss of data.
    Furthermore, repeated retries will not cause any duplication or
    corruption of data (except for the special case where you use
    RowNumber as your key-- please read our warning article about
    that).</p>
      <p>
         <b>Viewing content
    offline</b>:<b> </b>All spreadsheet/table
    data content is always copied locally on the device so that it
    is available offline by default. However, the images and
    documents associated with the app and data are not (these are
    typically much larger and so we need do not maintain a local
    copy). You can explicitly enable a setting that instructs
    AppSheet to make an offline copy of all image and document
    content. As with all other offline data caching, this copy
    occurs when the app is initially run on the mobile device
    (online) and is subsequently checked and refreshed as needed
    when Sync occurs.</p>
      <p>
         <b>Launching offline</b>: If you have used the
    lightweight deployment mechanism, you are familiar with
    launching apps from their homescreen icons. By default, a
    mobile device needs to be online in order to launch an app from
    its homescreen icon. Once launched, the app can then
    function offline or with intermittent connectivity. However, if
    you need the app to launch when the device is offline, this is
    an option you must explicitly set in the app
    definition.</p>
      <p>To do this, go to the Settings tab in either of the editors
    and choose the 'launch offline' option. If you have already
    installed your app to your home screen, you will then need to
    uninstall and reinstall the app in order to launch it from the
    home screen icon. Otherwise you'll need to launch it from the
    AppSheet app itself.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769278-Plan-upgrade-required.dita">Plan upgrade
        required</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803487-Reflecting-your-brand.dita">Reflecting
        your brand</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205111158-Displaying-images-and-documents.dita">Displaying
        images and documents</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206559378-Advanced-app-customizations.dita">Advanced app
        customizations</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803947-Check-your-app-for-deployment.dita">Check your
        app for deployment</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>