<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIFHGGHDRunDmodeDasDappDcreatorDorDappDuser">
   <title>Run mode-- as app creator or app user – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>The mobile app that you build communicates with the AppSheet
    backend, and it is the AppSheet backend that communicates with
    your cloud data provider (eg: Google Drive) to fetch or
    update data.</p>
      <p>For security reasons, the cloud data provider will not let
    AppSheet access your data unless AppSheet has the permissions
    to do so. Whenever a user or app creator signs in,
    he/she grants AppSheet the permission to act on their
    behalf.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b>As app creator</b>
      </p>
      <p>In the default run mode ('as app creator'), the AppSheet
    backend accesses data with the identity of the app creator. So
    if you are the app creator, and you have access to the
    spreadsheet that the app is based on, you can distribute your
    app to other people who do not have direct access to that data
    but the app still works fine.</p>
      <p>There is a security setting in the Advanced Editor which
    allows you to change the run mode to 'as app user'. As the name
    suggests, in this mode, the AppSheet backend will try to access
    the app data with the identity of the app user. This will fail
    for apps that don't enforce sign in. And even if the user does
    sign into the app, it may still fail if the user doesn't have
    permissions to access the source spreadsheet and folder.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b>As app user</b>
      </p>
      <p>So what's the benefit of the 'as app user' run mode? It is a
    stricter security mechanism (ensures that the permissions model
    of the cloud data provider are strictly maintained). It is also
    an auditing mechanism, especially for cloud providers like
    Google Drive and Box that maintain audit histories of all
    updates made to documents. If the app runs 'as app user', each
    change to the app recorded in the audit history will carry the
    identity of the specific user who made the change. Please be
    aware that if the app user does not have permissions to access
    the underlying data (eg: the spreadsheet on Google Drive that
    holds the app's data), the app will fail for that user.</p>
      <p>To avoid any confusion, this option has no bearing on the
    mode in which the app itself runs on the mobile device. The
    user who signs in is always the current user and expressions
    like @(_USERNAME) and @(_USEREMAIL) always reflect the current
    signed-in user, never the app creator.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205869098-Maintaining-an-audit-trail.dita">Maintaining an
        audit trail</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206532797-Data-access-for-different-classes-of-users.dita">
        Data access for different classes of users</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205113918-Controlling-data-updates.dita">Controlling data
        updates</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>