<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIADFCHDCapturingDimagesDandDdocuments">
   <title>Capturing images and documents – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Documents (PDF files) can be captured by an app
    only when it is run in a desktop browser. Documents require a
    column of type File that is editable. Mobile devices do not
    have a standard file system, which is why file upload is not
    supported on mobile devices at the moment.</p>
      <p>Many applications (e.g. a vehicle inspection app) need to
    capture an image in a column of a data row. If your app
    has a column of type Image or Thumbnail, and you have enabled
    data Edit or Add, then the app can capture images when editing
    or adding a data row.</p>
      <p>On Android devices, by default, the user is prompted with
    the choice to take a new photo or use the camera roll. On iOS
    devices, by default, the camera is launched. If you want to
    optionally browse the photos in your camera roll, you
    should enable a setting for the AppSheet app on
    the device.</p>
      <p>Here's how AppSheet processes the photos taken with the
    camera:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Any photo taken on a device with your app is saved in
      full resolution in the camera roll on the device. <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/An-app-for-construction-site-inspections-with-GPS-and-images?appGuidString=a7058530-b6d1-4dcd-a819-6000e7bbe6c1.html" scope="external" format="html">
        See how the camera function works in our Site
        Scout sample app.</xref> Note: if you use the app
        on the desktop, the image capture function only allows you
        to open an image file. Using the image function on a
        mobile device will allow you to either upload an image from
        your device's gallery or to manually take a photo.
      </li>
      
         <li>When the user presses the Sync button, the photo is
      downloaded at a reduced resolution (to conserve network
      bandwidth) and is saved in the same folder location as the
      spreadsheet (all images are saved into a subfolder). The
      image resolution used is controllable via an app setting in
      the Advanced Editor&gt;Settings&gt;Content tab.</li>
      
         <li>The row in the spreadsheet includes the name of the image
      file just created, so that all subsequent accesses work
      smoothly. The image file name includes the row key as well as
      the column name so that it can easily be correlated to the
      corresponding row.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p>If you would like to have URLs to view these images,
    you should add an additional URL column and use the following
    spreadsheet formula (on Google Sheets) to construct image urls
    from the image file names: </p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4">
         <i><!--Original: <span @class=>-->
            <ph>
    
               <b>Format:</b>
            </ph>
         </i>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4"><!--Original: <span @class=>-->
         <ph>
    =SUBSTITUTE(CONCATENATE("https://www.appsheet.com/template/gettablefileurl?appName=","<b>[AppName-Account#]</b>","&amp;tableName=","<b>[TableName]</b>","&amp;fileName=",+<b>[ImageColumnCell]</b>)<!--Original: <span @class= default-formula-text-color>-->
            <ph outputclass=" default-formula-text-color">,</ph> <!--Original: <span @class= string>-->
            <ph outputclass=" string">"
    "</ph><!--Original: <span @class= default-formula-text-color>-->
            <ph outputclass=" default-formula-text-color">,</ph> <!--Original: <span @class= string>-->
            <ph outputclass=" string">"%20"</ph>)</ph>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4">
    
         <i>
            <b>Sample:</b>
         </i>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4"><!--Original: <span @class=>-->
         <ph>
    =SUBSTITUTE(CONCATENATE("https://www.appsheet.com/template/gettablefileurl?appName=","<!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">
               <b>Inventory-114348</b>",</ph>"&amp;tableName=","<b>Orders</b>","&amp;fileName=",+<b>B2</b>)<!--Original: <span @class= default-formula-text-color>-->
            <ph outputclass=" default-formula-text-color">,</ph> <!--Original: <span @class= string>-->
            <ph outputclass=" string">"
    "</ph><!--Original: <span @class= default-formula-text-color>-->
            <ph outputclass=" default-formula-text-color">,</ph> <!--Original: <span @class= string>-->
            <ph outputclass=" string">"%20"</ph>)</ph>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4">
         <b>Note: Your image folder must
    be publicly accessible.</b>
      </p>
      <p>Now that you have the correct URL format, you may also embed
    the image inline within your spreadsheet (on Google Sheets). To
    do so, wrap the URL formula in an IMAGE() expression.</p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4">
         <b>
            <i><!--Original: <span @class=>-->
               <ph>
    Format:</ph>
            </i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4"><!--Original: <span @class=>-->
         <ph>
    =IMAGE(SUBSTITUTE(CONCATENATE("https://www.appsheet.com/template/gettablefileurl?appName=","<b>[AppName-Account#]</b>","&amp;tableName=","<b>[TableName]</b>","&amp;fileName=",+<b>[ImageColumnCell]</b>)<!--Original: <span @class= default-formula-text-color>-->
            <ph outputclass=" default-formula-text-color">,</ph> <!--Original: <span @class= string>-->
            <ph outputclass=" string">"
    "</ph><!--Original: <span @class= default-formula-text-color>-->
            <ph outputclass=" default-formula-text-color">,</ph> <!--Original: <span @class= string>-->
            <ph outputclass=" string">"%20"</ph>))</ph>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4">
    
         <b>
            <i>Sample:</i>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent4"><!--Original: <span @class=>-->
         <ph>
    =IMAGE(SUBSTITUTE(CONCATENATE("https://www.appsheet.com/template/gettablefileurl?appName=","<!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">
               <b>Inventory-114348</b>",</ph>"&amp;tableName=",<b>"Orders"</b>,"&amp;fileName=",+<b>B2</b>)<!--Original: <span @class= default-formula-text-color>-->
            <ph outputclass=" default-formula-text-color">,</ph> <!--Original: <span @class= string>-->
            <ph outputclass=" string">"
    "</ph><!--Original: <span @class= default-formula-text-color>-->
            <ph outputclass=" default-formula-text-color">,</ph> <!--Original: <span @class= string>-->
            <ph outputclass=" string">"%20"</ph>))</ph> 
      </p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>If you have issues with device crashes or hangs while taking
    photos please see <xref href="206951007.dita">this article</xref>. </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205111158-Displaying-images-and-documents.dita">Displaying
        images and documents</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856967-Capturing-signatures-and-drawings.dita">Capturing
        signatures and drawings</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205843908-Capturing-GPS-location.dita">Capturing
        GPS location</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803487-Reflecting-your-brand.dita">Reflecting
        your brand</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205113868-Errors-and-warnings-in-the-editor.dita">Errors
        and warnings in the editor</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>