<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIADHFHDDViewingDexternalDcontent">
   <title>Viewing external content – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Your app can also show URLs and documents.</p>
      <p>We support two data types for external content--
    <b>URL</b> and <b>File</b>. If you have
    URLs in a column, the app allows users to click on the URL and
    see the content in a hosted web browser window. Additionally,
    the users have the option of opening the content in the native
    web browser on the device (eg: Mobile Safari on iOS).</p>
      <p>If you have PDFs or other documents, the app similarly opens
    the content in a hosted web browser. Depending on the device
    and operating system, there may be support for viewing of a
    variety of file types-- for example, most browsers enable PDF
    viewing.</p>
      <p>To include files or PDFs in your app, you will need to add
    either the file name or the URL where the document is hosted.
    For example, in the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/An-app-for-a-marketing-team-to-access-customer-case-studies-on-and-offline?appGuidString=2018fca7-8a19-49b9-a10b-7f53a05b7125.html" scope="external" format="html">Marketing
    Docs sample</xref>, you'll see that the PDFs are coming from
    Google Drive URLs. In order for these to be viewable by third
    parties, we made sure they were publicly accessible by placing
    them in a public folder in Google Drive. </p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803527-Capturing-images-and-documents.dita">Capturing
        images and documents</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803767-Customizing-input-forms.dita">Customizing input
        forms</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856967-Capturing-signatures-and-drawings.dita">Capturing
        signatures and drawings</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856397-Working-with-charts.dita">Working with
        charts</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita">Column types</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>