<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIGJAJIDMaintainingDanDauditDtrail">
   <title>Maintaining an audit trail – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-text-align-left">In some apps, it is
    important to know who made each update. A pre-requisite for
    this is, of course, that users must be required to sign in to
    use the app.</p>
      <p>The simplest mechanism is for the app to maintain an extra
    column of type Email to hold the user's email. If you provide
    @(_USEREMAIL) as the Default value of this column, then every
    new row entered will automatically populate with the email
    address of the currently logged in user.</p>
      <p>Some apps require a richer audit-trail, to maintain the
    history of changes made by different users. Typically, the
    backend cloud storage provider has an auditing mechanism. For
    example, Google Spreadsheets provide a Change History that
    shows a detailed list of changes made, when they were made, who
    made them, etc. In order to utilize this backend audit history,
    it is important that the AppSheet app run with the security
    setting '<xref href="205857667-Run-mode-as-app-creator-or-user.dita">As App
    User</xref>'. Each potential app user should also be given
    permissions to access the backend spreadsheet.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita">Column types</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769278-Plan-upgrade-required.dita">Plan upgrade
        required</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206337137-Printing-your-data.dita">Printing your
        data</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>