<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIAGAIHDUsingDspreadsheetsDwithDpivotedDdata">
   <title>Using spreadsheets with pivoted data – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Most spreadsheet data uses field names as column headers and
    data entries in each row, but what should your data is pivoted
    with field names down the first column and data entries in the
    other columns? For example, if employee names are used as
    column headers and employee attributes as rows.</p>
      <p>AppSheet doesn't work with pivoted data. This is because
    apps are generated from the column structure of the data. The
    column structure tells the app the "shape" of the data that it
    needs to process. This structure needs to stay stable as the
    app is being used. New data should take the form new rows and
    changes to data should take the form of row edits or row
    deletes.</p>
      <p>Luckily most data can be re-pivoted so that the attributes
    of each data item form column headers and the values of each
    data item are represented in a row. This is very easy to do in
    a spreadsheet. In Google Spreadsheets or Excel, you first copy
    the data and then use 'Paste Transpose'.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205806077-Many-identical-apps.dita">Many identical
        apps</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803467-Presentation-types.dita">Presentation
        types</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207340097-How-do-I-control-the-order-of-columns-displayed-in-the-app-.dita">
        How do I control the order of columns displayed in the
        app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="215724197-Including-PDF-s-in-your-application.dita">Including
        PDF's in your application</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>