<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIFHBGHDTrackingDchangesDusingDChangeDcolumnDtypes">
   <title>Tracking changes using 'Change' column types – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>In some apps, it is important to track when and where some
    data was changed. For example, in a field service app, it may
    be important to record when a certain field was changed.</p>
      <p>AppSheet has a simple mechanism to track changes-- via
    'Change' column types. There are three "Change" column types--
    <b>ChangeTimestamp, ChangeCounter,</b> and
    <b>ChangeLocation</b>. These column types all have a
    set of shared characteristics that are specified via the column
    Type Qualifier:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>What triggers a change: any change to any other column,
      any change to some specific fields or a single field, or
      changes to a specific field that result in one of a known set
      of values</li>
      
         <li>What should happen when such a change is detected:
      increment a counter (ChangeCounter), set a timestamp to the
      current time (ChangeTimestamp), or record the current
      location (ChangeLocation) </li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>As a simple example, in the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/An-app-to-share-interviewer-feedback-on-potential-job-candidates?appGuidString=2bb93705-dd24-4c9f-b051-812887324f9b.html" scope="external" format="html" outputclass="TutorialAppExample">Interview Feedback sample</xref>, the Feedback
    table has a Changes column of type ChangeColumn. The type
    qualifier doesn't "qualify" the type in any way, so this column
    will track changes to any other field in the row. If any other
    row changes, the value of the Changes column is
    incremented. </p>
      <p>A more typical example would want to track changes to
    specific columns, perhaps even more specifically changes of
    those columns to specific values. In the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/An-app-to-record-store-inventory-Sort-products-by-unique-categories?appGuidString=0c2387ab-c8ca-4477-950e-d66a54a5e067.html" scope="external" format="html" outputclass="TutorialAppExample">Store Inventory sample</xref>, the Inventory List
    table has a Date Checked column. It listens for changes to a
    specific other column, Quantity In Stock. And in fact, it looks
    to see if that value changes to 0. If it does, then the column
    records the current timestamp.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205106268-Using-a-scanner.dita">Using a
        scanner</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="213522328-Grouped-views-and-data-filtering.dita">Grouped
        views and data filtering</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803757--Viewing-external-content.dita">Viewing
        external content</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096517-Slices.dita">Slices</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>