<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIAGAGHDMakeDyourDlistDintoDanDapp">
   <title>Make your list into an app – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Everyone has a list in a spreadsheet-- a client list, an
    item list, etc. Here are some suggestions for building useful
    list apps.</p>
      <p>Consider multiple grouped list views instead of or in
    addition to the default tabular view. Grouped views help you
    divide your data into different categories.</p>
      <p>If you have a list of people:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Their phone numbers should be touch-callable in the app.
      If not, it is probably because your telephone number format
      was not automatically recognized by AppSheet. No problem, you
      can explicitly set the type of this column to Phone.</li>
      
         <li>If there are physical addresses for the entries in your
      list, consider adding a map view. Your addresses should be
      fully specified (i.e. if you live in Las Vegas and all your
      addresses are in Las Vegas, don't just leave out 'Las Vegas,
      NV, USA' from your addresses). While the shortened address
      clearly makes sense in your context, our mapping software
      does better with full addresses.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>If you have a list of products:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Consider adding an image to each product and add an image
      gallery view. Images usually look beautiful. Play with the
      different image presentation sizes. They completely alter the
      feel of the app. Don't worry if you have high resolution
      images-- we downsize them appropriately for a mobile
      device.</li>
      
         <li>If you want to steer users to an external e-commerce
      site, you can add an action button to each image. Take a look
      at the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/ShowDef?appName=ECommerceStore-10305.html" scope="external" format="html">
        ECommerce Store sample.</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>If you have a list of numbers (sales reports, budgets,
    etc.):</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Consider using one or more chart views-- they will help
      you visualize the data.</li>
      
         <li>AppSheet supports different kinds of charts and we are
      adding more based on customer requests.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>If you have a list of instructions:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Consider adding an image to each instruction and using a
      List view with a Deck presentation.</li>
      
         <li>Take a look at the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/ShowDef?appName=InstructionManual-10305.html" scope="external" format="html">
        Repair Manual sample.</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205113978-Apps-using-dates.dita">Apps using
        dates</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205111158-Displaying-images-and-documents.dita">Displaying
        images and documents</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207765117-How-should-I-use-multiple-sheets-in-my-app-.dita">
        How should I use multiple sheets in my app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>