<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFIFGDJHDWorkingDwithDcharts">
   <title>Working with charts – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>We support a number of different chart presentations. In
    general, charting is a complex topic. As the designer of a
    chart, you typically have to make three choices:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>How many individual series 'lines' do you draw?</li>
      
         <li>What values are on the X and Y axes?</li>
      
         <li>What chart display type do you use-- line, bar chart,
      etc.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>We have tried to keep it simple by limiting the possible
    answers for each of these choices:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
            <b>Histogram</b> -- this is the ideal chart
      type to segment and drilldown a dataset. A histogram is a
      special kind of bar chart to show aggregate distributions.
      For example, if you want to see the number of customers who
      purchased each automobile model, you specify the column whose
      values will be aggregated. The X axis gets one entry for each
      unique value in this column and the Y axis shows the count of
      the number of rows that have that value in that column. You
      can specify multiple levels of drilldown by specifying
      multiple columns. </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <b>Row Series chart</b>-- this is appropriate for
        spreadsheet data where most of the data is numeric on a
        uniform scale (eg: monthly sales data). Every row forms a
        series, each of which is identified by the row key. You
        choose a subset of the column names that will be charted on
        the X axis. The Y axis is based on the numeric values in
        the row cells. You can choose a line chart, a bar chart, or
        a stacked bar chart as the display type. A good example of
        a Row Series chart is the 'By Month' view in
        the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/A-car-sales-reporting-app-with-helpful-visual-graphs-driven-by-sales-data-?appGuidString=033f7ab1-4f16-4adb-8bd9-0dd6a7433bb5.html" scope="external" format="html">Sales Report sample.</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <b>Column Series chart</b>-- this is appropriate
        for spreadsheet data with just a few rows corresponding to
        items to compare (eg: monthly sales data by category).
        Every column forms a series, each of which is identified by
        the column name. Each row (using its row key column) forms
        one entry on the X axis. The Y axis is based on the numeric
        values in the row cells. You can choose a line chart, a bar
        chart or a stacked bar chart as the display type. A good
        example of a Column Series chart is the 'By Type' view in
        the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/A-car-sales-reporting-app-with-helpful-visual-graphs-driven-by-sales-data-?appGuidString=033f7ab1-4f16-4adb-8bd9-0dd6a7433bb5.html" scope="external" format="html" outputclass="TutorialAppExample">Sales Report sample.</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>Over time, we will add more chart types, while trying to
    keep the concepts simple.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803467-Presentation-types.dita">Presentation
        types</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803767-Customizing-input-forms.dita">Customizing input
        forms</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206122068-Conditional-formatting.dita">Conditional
        formatting</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803757--Viewing-external-content.dita">Viewing
        external content</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>