<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAFJFJEFIDErrorsDduringDSync">
   <title>Errors during Sync – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>As described earlier, Sync has three stages:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Send changes from the device to the backend.
      When this stage starts, the Sync progress bar is about
      1/4 complete.</li>
      
         <li>Fetch the latest app definition from the backend. After
      this stage, the Sync progress bar moves to 3/4 complete.</li>
      
         <li>Fetch the latest data from the backend.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>Most errors in Sync are observed in the first stage (i.e.
    when the progress bar is 1/4 complete). </p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>If there are network errors, the step is retried a few
      times, and if the failure persists, the Sync is halted. The
      solution is to retry later when connectivity is
      better.</li>
      
         <li>If you have poor connectivity or if large images have to
      be sent as part of the Sync, this step can take a long time
      and can potentially timeout. The solution is to retry later
      when connectivity is better.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>If the app definition has changed on the backend (for
    example, new columns have been added to the data), the local
    changes from the device may no longer be executable. In this
    case, an error message is shown to the app user during Sync. It
    usually takes the form of an error indicating that a value
    being inserted is incompatible with the type of data expected
    (because the columns have changed!). If you use the advanced
    menu in the app (top left) and choose 'About', you will see the
    basic app information including the version number. The version
    number indicates the accurate version of the app that is being
    run. The creator of your app can look at the latest app version
    number via the app editor's Manage pane. This is the best way
    to determine if there is a mismatch between the app version on
    your device and the app version expected by the AppSheet
    backend during sync. There are two possible remedies to this
    situation:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Restore the old version: the app creator can restore the
      required version of the app. This will work only if the
      underlying data sources (spreadsheets) have not changed their
      column structure. Once the old version is restored, the sync
      should proceed successfully.</li>
      
         <li>Manual recovery: if all else fails, you will have to
      abandon the changes on the device via "Reset Changes" (in the
      advanced menu at the top left of the app). However if you
      cannot afford to lose these local changes, first click on the
      "Show Changes" menu option. This will give you the
      option to send yourself a copy of the changes via email, so
      that you can manually process this data.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206951007-Application-crashes-errors.dita">Application
        crashes / errors</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206366667-Sync-between-the-app-and-the-backend.dita">Sync--
        between the app and the backend</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211330018-Controlling-data-inputs-with-column-constraints.dita">
        Controlling data inputs with column constraints</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="208042838-How-should-I-choose-a-key-.dita">How
        should I choose a key?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205973178-App-formulas.dita">App formulas</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>