<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAGAJGIAHDSpecifyingDaDkey">
   <title>Specifying a key – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>It is very important that AppSheet pick a good key for your
    dataset. AppSheet needs to be able to uniquely identify each
    row of data in the spreadsheet. The 'key' is a single column
    that provides this unique identity. This helps AppSheet
    synchronize changes made in the app back to the spreadsheet.
     </p>
      <p>Many data sets naturally have a key, i.e. a column whose
    value does not change and that uniquely identifies the row. For
    a product catalog, the product ID or the product name are good
    keys. For a customer database, the customer name or ID makes a
    good key. Make your key column the leftmost column if possible.
    AppSheet processes the data left to right looking for a key
    column. Key columns should not have duplicate values. AppSheet
    checks the data to see if there are duplicates, and ignores
    some column types that are typically not good keys (e.g. a URL
    or a timestamp). If no obvious unique key is found, AppSheet
    tries to combine columns to form a 'computed' key. And if no
    other option exists, the rownumber is picked as the key, but
    this has various limitations so try to avoid this if
    possible.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b>Generating a random key</b>
      </p>
      <p>You have the option of generating a random text key for each
    entry to uniquely identify it. This is useful for forms inputs
    that need to generate a key field. To do this, use the Advanced
    Editor. Click the Data tab, and then the Column Structure tab.
    Scroll to the field name you would like to have a random text
    key, then scroll to the right, and in the Default Value field,
    type <i>UNIQUEID()</i>. 
    </p>
      <p>
         <b>AppFormulas and keys</b>
      </p>
      <p>AppFormulas may be used in key fields provided the
    AppFormula always yields the same result over time. That
    ensures that the key value remains consistent over the life of
    the row. We examine the contents of the key field's AppFormula
    to ensure that it yields the same result over time. We display
    an error if it does not. For example, an AppFormula that
    includes the current date or time might yield different results
    over time, so it would be prohibited in a key field's
    AppFormula.
    </p>
      <p>
         <b>Using multi-column keys</b>
      </p>
      <p>You can also specify more than one column as the key in your
    app. This will combine the columns you choose, showing all
    chosen columns' values next to each other in the app. You would
    do this to create a more refined key. From the Advanced Editor,
    click the Data tab, then 'Column Structure.' Under 'Primary
    key?' check any number of boxes to form a multi-column key--
    this will appear at the bottom as the '_ComputedKey'.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita">Column types</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207340097-How-do-I-control-the-order-of-columns-displayed-in-the-app-.dita">
        How do I control the order of columns displayed in the
        app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856197-Keys.dita">Keys</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206199518-Spreadsheet-formulas.dita">Spreadsheet
        formulas</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205669318-How-do-I-control-the-order-of-rows-displayed-in-my-app-.dita">
        How do I control the order of rows displayed in my app?</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>