<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAGBJJFBIDSpreadsheetDformulas">
   <title>Spreadsheet formulas – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Spreadsheets have very rich and expressive formula
    capabilities. These are well-documented by the spreadsheet
    providers like Excel and Google Sheets. When the mobile app
    reads data from the spreadsheet, the formula values are
    computed. Likewise, when data is updated and synced back to the
    spreadsheet, the appropriate formulas are computed
    again. </p>
      <p>
         <b>There are two kinds of spreadsheet
    formulas:</b>
      </p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>In-row formulas: these are formulas that only use values
      from other cells in the same row. For example, if the formula
      for cell C2 = A2 + B2</li>
      
         <li>Multi-row formulas: these are formulas that use values
      from cells in other rows. For example, if the formula for
      cell C2 = C1 + 1</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>Columns with spreadsheet formulas are treated as Read-Only
    by AppSheet. This is because spreadsheet formulas cannot be
    evaluated in the mobile app. However, they are evaluated when
    data is sent to or from the backend spreadsheet.</p>
      <p>
         <b>
    Formula consistency</b>
      </p>
      <p>If all the cells in a column have the same formula, AppSheet
    recognizes that the intent is for all new rows to also have
    that formula. As a result, new rows inserted will include the
    formula.</p>
      <p>On the other hand, if some cells in a column have a formula
    and other cells have either no formula or a different formula,
    AppSheet will issue a warning to the app creator. The column
    will be marked Read-Only but new rows will not be assigned a
    formula in this column (because it is not clear what the
    desired intent is).
    </p>
      <p>
         <b>Multi-row formulas with aggregates</b>
      </p>
      <p>A common use of multi-row formulas in a spreadsheet is to
    compute aggregate functions (totals, averages, etc). For
    example, a spreadsheet with individual order
    items followed by a row with the order total. AppSheet
    apps require that the rows in the same table be all of a
    similar nature --- i.e. all order items --- because clearly
    there are different app behaviors expected with order items and
    order totals.</p>
      <p>AppSheet ignore rows with aggregate multi-row formulas after
    issuing a warning to the app creator. This applies to both
    "totals rows" and "sub-totals" rows.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>Note: spreadsheet formulas are distinct from <xref href="205973178-App-formulas.dita">App Formulas</xref>. The two
    mechanisms are complementary and both add value to your
    app. App Formulas run while the user is updating data in
    the app, and will work even when the app is offline.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205973178-App-formulas.dita">App formulas</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096807-Specifying-a-key.dita">Specifying a
        key</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207276877-Make-a-spreadsheet.dita">Make a
        spreadsheet</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096517-Slices.dita">Slices</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>