<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAGDGGGGHDSyncDbetweenDtheDappDandDtheDbackend">
   <title>Sync-- between the app and the backend – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Apps built with AppSheet are designed to handle intermittent
    connectivity loss, or full offline operation. This is achieved
    by maintaining a copy of the relevant data locally on the
    mobile device (securely, of course!). As a side-effect of this
    design, we have to consider when and how the local copy of the
    data stays in sync with the backend spreadsheet.</p>
      <p>There are three cases to consider:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Changes are made in the app and need to be propagated to
      the backend.</li>
      
         <li>Changes are made to the backend data (either directly, or
      by other users of the AppSheet app) and these need to be
      propagated to the app.</li>
      
         <li>Changes are made to the app definition itself and need to
      be propagated to the app.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>All of these occur as part of "Sync". There are four ways in
    which Sync may be invoked:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>If this is the first time the app is being invoked on a
      specific device, Sync is automatically invoked when the app
      is started. This fetches the latest app definition along with
      the data needed to run the app.</li>
      
         <li>For apps that work primarily online and want close to
      synchronous behavior, the app creator should disable the
      "Delayed Sync" setting. Every time the app user saves any
      edit, add, or delete action, this not only makes the change
      locally on the device but also immediately invokes Sync.
        </li>
      
         <li>If the app has local changes that have not been
      propagated to the backend, the Sync button (at the bottom
      right) is highlighted. Clicking on Sync will manually invoke
      the Sync function. For apps that work primarily
      offline, the app creator should enable the "<xref href="205752487-Can-I-have-my-app-update-automatically-.dita">Delayed
      Sync</xref>" setting, and the app users will explicitly invoke
      Sync when they have network connectivity.
      </li>
      
         <li>The app creator can also enable the "Sync on Start"
      option. When this is enabled, the app syncs every time it is
      started by the user.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>Each Sync action itself has three steps that occur
    sequentially:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Any local changes are sent to the backend and applied to
      the backend data in the order they were originally
      executed.</li>
      
         <li>The latest app definition is fetched down to the mobile
      device. If no change has occurred since the last Sync, this
      step is optimized.</li>
      
         <li>The latest backend data is fetched down to the mobile
      device. If no change has occurred since the last Sync,
      this step is optimized.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206435467-Multi-page-forms-with-conditional-branching.dita">
        Multi-page forms with conditional branching</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803767-Customizing-input-forms.dita">Customizing input
        forms</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769278-Plan-upgrade-required.dita">Plan upgrade
        required</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205755287-Mobile-specific-features-in-my-app.dita">Mobile-specific
        features in my app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205754997-Who-should-use-AppSheet-and-what-kind-of-apps-can-it-create-.dita">
        Who should use AppSheet and what kind of apps can it
        create?</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>