<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAGEIDABHDGoogleDDrive">
   <title>Google Drive – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Users of Google Drive can sometimes see Error 403
    (permission denied) or Error 404 (not found). There are a
    few common reasons for this:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>You are not the owner of the document but this is a
      shared document owned by a different Google account. Check
      your document sharing permissions on Google.</li>
      
         <li>You have multiple Google accounts (let's call them
      Acct1 and Acct2); your spreadsheet is owned by Acct1
      but you sign into AppSheet using Acct2 to access the
      spreadsheet. Either use the same account, or share the
      document across accounts. </li>
      
         <li>You had access to the file at one point, but the access
      has been removed.</li>
      
         <li>This can sometimes occur if you have a corporate Google
      Docs account that has an admin policy that prohibits all
      users from enabling third party software like AppSheet (so
      you may need to talk to your account admin).</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>
         <xref href="https://support.google.com/a/answer/3187191?topic=1714320&amp;ctx=topic.html" scope="external" format="html">
    Click here to learn more about enabling Google
    permissions.</xref>
      </p>
      <p>If you use on of the AppSheet add-ons to integrate with
    Google Forms, Sheets, or Docs, please also read <xref href="205612728-Integrating-with-Google-Apps-Sheets-and-Forms-.dita">
    this article</xref> to learn more about specific limitations in
    those integrations. </p>
      <p>In particular, if you utilize Google AppScript onEdit
    triggers on your Google Sheet, or a third-party addon that
    utilizes these triggers, those triggers are not fired when
    AppSheet makes a change to the data in the spreadsheet. This is
    an unfortunate limitation imposed by Google on all third-party
    solutions like AppSheet. The best workaround is to utilize a
    timed AppScript trigger rather than an onEdit trigger.</p>
      <p>The Google onChange "Simple Trigger" is fired when AppSheet
    makes a change to the spreadsheet. When Google Sheets fires
    the onChange trigger, it passes an "event
    object" to the invoked onChange script that contains
    information regarding the onChange event. See the Google
    documentation for "App Scripts" for more information regarding
    scripting.</p>
      <p>Also, do not use filters on your Google Sheets --- it can
    make the filtered rows invisible to updates. Instead, use
    filter views (this is a Google Sheets feature that lets each
    user create and use their own filters without affecting other
    users of the sheet).</p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769278-Plan-upgrade-required.dita">Plan upgrade
        required</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803767-Customizing-input-forms.dita">Customizing input
        forms</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769158-Dropbox.dita">Dropbox</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="213399798-Deployment-from-an-install-link.dita">Deployment
        from an install link</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>