<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAGEDFEGHDMultiDpageDformsDwithDconditionalDbranching">
   <title>Multi-page forms with conditional branching – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-text-align-center">
         <required-cleanup remap="iframe">
            <ph/>
         </required-cleanup>
      </p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>You might want to break up a long input form into
    several pages for convenience. In some apps, it makes
    sense to conditionally show or hide a specific page based on
    choices made earlier. For example, in a form for a vehicle
    inspection report, you may have an initial question asking if
    there is damage. If the answer is Yes, you may want to show a
    Form page that has specific questions about the damage. If the
    answer is No, you would want to skip that page.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Conditional
    branching in Google Forms</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>When you are building your app from a Google Form, use
    <b>Add Item -&gt; Page break</b> to split the
    form into multiple pages (Note: You can optionally provide a
    page header or description. This is helpful to remember where
    you're directing respondents and helping respondents understand
    your form's structure). You can then add <b>Multiple
    choice</b> or <b>Choose from a list</b> items
    with the option "Go to page based on answer" and
    choose different navigation paths for each option.
    <i>Often you will also want these "conditional branching"
    questions be be marked as required.</i>
      </p>
      <p>At each page break, you can also choose where the form
    should go next. Keep in mind that the page break navigation
    will only take effect under certain circumstances:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>When the page has no conditional branching
      questions</li>
      
         <li>When conditional branching questions are not
      required and no answer is given</li>
      
         <li>When "Continue to next page" is chosen for specific
      answers to branching questions</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>After setting up your form, start the <xref href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/appsheet/hmmicpkfdjjchdajlldfckjaanfobjob?hl=en-US.html" scope="external" format="html">AppSheet add-on</xref> and click "Prepare". The
    AppSheet add-on creates "Page Header" columns in your response
    spreadsheet to represent each page break and
    automatically converts the form's "go-to-page"
    navigation into AppSheet's "show if" expression model.
    The Page Header columns appear in AppSheet as "<xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita" scope="external">Show</xref>" type
    columns, meaning they affect the visual presentation of
    forms. The Type Qualifier for these columns specifies
    the Category as 'Page_Header'. You can examine the
    column structure in the <xref href="206559378-Advanced-app-customizations.dita" scope="external">Advanced Editor</xref>&gt;Data&gt;Column Structure.</p>
      <p>Most forms can now be correctly converted to AppSheet apps
    automatically, but there are two main limitations:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Reverse navigation is not supported by AppSheet.
      Try to arrange your form such that all navigation proceeds to
      higher page numbers.</li>
      
         <li>In Google Forms you can
      include a special "Other" option for
      Multiple choice questions and assign it specific navigation
      behavior. However, the navigation associated with this choice
      is not made available to the AppSheet add-on. We
      recommend avoiding use of "Other" on questions
      where "Go to page based on answer" is enabled.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>For more information about the conversion from Google Forms
    to AppSheet, see <xref href="205612728-Integrating-with-Google-Apps-Sheets-and-Forms-.dita" scope="external">this article</xref>. </p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Conditional
    branching in your spreadsheet and the Advanced
    Editor</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>When you are building your form app from a spreadsheet,
    insert an empty column at each point where you'd like a page
    break in the form. </p>
      <p>While conditional branching in Google Forms is based on a
    "go-to-page" navigation model, AppSheet uses a "show if" model
    to describe whether a given page should be shown or hidden. By
    default, pages are always shown. To make a page appear
    conditionally,</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Find the corresponding Page
      Header at Advanced Editor&gt;Data&gt;Column
      Structure (the empty page-break columns in the spreadsheet
      are treated within AppSheet as "<xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita" scope="external">Show</xref>"-type
      fields with Category "Page_Header").
      </li>
      
         <li>Click the "edit" icon on the left side and scroll down to
      the Type Qualifier settings.</li>
      
         <li>Create an <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita" scope="external">expression</xref> in the "Show_If" field that defines
      when the page should be shown.
      </li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>
         <b>Example</b>
      </p>
      <p>Suppose you have an Enum (dropdown) on the first page called
    "Cat or dog person?" with choices "Cat" and "Dog", and you have
    page breaks for an "About Cats" page and an "About Dogs"
    page.</p>
      <p>The "About Cats" page can be shown only when "Cat" is chosen
    by setting the Show_If field of the Page Header to the
    expression <b>[Cat or dog person?]="Cat"</b>.</p>
      <p>Likewise the "About Dogs" page can be shown only when "Dog"
    is chosen by using the Show_If expression <b>[Cat or dog
    person?]="Dog"</b>.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-medium>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-medium">
            <b>Which should
    I use?</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Auto-generating your app from a Google Form with the
    <xref href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/appsheet/hmmicpkfdjjchdajlldfckjaanfobjob?hl=en-US.html" scope="external" format="html">AppSheet add-on</xref> is often easier and more
    convenient, since the add-on takes care of building the Show_If
    expressions for you. However, if your form
    requires complex navigation conditions that depend on
    multiple fields, you may not be able to represent it with
    Google's "go-to-page" model. </p>
      <p>Creating your own Show_If expressions in the Advanced Editor
    gives you more freedom to define complex composite or
    comparison conditions that can't be represented in Google Forms
    using functions like AND, OR, NOT, etc. </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803767-Customizing-input-forms.dita">Customizing input
        forms</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211330018-Controlling-data-inputs-with-column-constraints.dita">
        Controlling data inputs with column constraints</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207765117-How-should-I-use-multiple-sheets-in-my-app-.dita">
        How should I use multiple sheets in my app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206122068-Conditional-formatting.dita">Conditional
        formatting</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205843908-Capturing-GPS-location.dita">Capturing
        GPS location</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>