<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAGFDCHJHDDataDaccessDforDdifferentDclassesDofDusers">
   <title>Data access for different classes of users – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Many AppSheet apps allow users to update data. Please see
    <xref href="205113918-Controlling-data-updates.dita">this
    article</xref> that describes how you control update permissions
    at the granularity of the entire app.</p>
      <p>There is sometimes a desire to limit the ability of a
    certain class of users to see and/or update some data. For
    example, the creator of an app for use in the workplace may
    want work assignments editable by managers, but not by
    employees.</p>
      <p>You cannot limit some data in the app to some users and
    other data to other users. The simple answer in AppSheet is to
    build different apps for different classes of users.</p>
      <p>It is easy to build multiple apps against the same
    underlying data, but with different permissions for each class
    of users. You can do this via the update permissions
    instructions found in <xref href="205113918-Controlling-data-updates.dita">this
    article</xref>. </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205113918-Controlling-data-updates.dita">Controlling data
        updates</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205857667-Run-mode-as-app-creator-or-app-user.dita">Run
        mode-- as app creator or app user</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205096278-Who-can-discover-and-install-your-app-.dita">Who
        can discover and install your app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="215789898-How-do-I-make-sure-each-user-sees-only-their-own-data-.dita">
        How do I make sure each user sees only their own data?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205869098-Maintaining-an-audit-trail.dita">Maintaining an
        audit trail</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>