<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CAHHGFBBHDHowDshouldDIDuseDmultipleDsheetsDinDmyDappD">
   <title>How should I use multiple sheets in my app? – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>You might want to use data from more than one
    spreadsheet in your AppSheet app. There are two ways to
    do this. <xref href="205098468-Using-multiple-spreadsheets.dita">You can add
    multiple standalone spreadsheet files as AppSheet tables.</xref>
    It is also possible to create AppSheet tables
    from different worksheets within the same workbook.</p>
      <p>To be clear on terminology, a single dataset used
    by AppSheet is called a <b>table</b>. The
    source of a table is a single spreadsheet.
    A <b>workbook</b> is a file that contains one
    or more worksheets; a <b>worksheet</b> is a single
    spreadsheet that contains cells organized by rows and
    columns. </p>
      <p>Either approach works just fine, depending on your
    circumstances. The performance of the two options may differ
    based on the specific content. The intuition is simple-- the
    AppSheet backend has to download the entire spreadsheet file
    but if the same file (workbook) is referenced multiple times
    (via multiple tables referencing individual worksheets in the
    workbook), the backend can be efficient and download it just
    once. On the other hand, multiple small files can be fetched
    and processed efficiently in parallel.</p>
      <p>In most cases, you should pick whichever approach is
    convenient for you to manage. However, if you use only two
    worksheets out of a spreadsheet file with a hundred large
    worksheets in it, you'd be better off splitting those two off
    into their own single files. </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205098468-Using-multiple-spreadsheets.dita">Using
        multiple spreadsheets</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207340097-How-do-I-control-the-order-of-columns-displayed-in-the-app-.dita">
        How do I control the order of columns displayed in the
        app?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206435467-Multi-page-forms-with-conditional-branching.dita">
        Multi-page forms with conditional branching</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205754997-Who-should-use-AppSheet-and-what-kind-of-apps-can-it-create-.dita">
        Who should use AppSheet and what kind of apps can it
        create?</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">How
        do I design a secure app?</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>