<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBBDCGIDIDExpressions">
   <title>Expressions – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Please see the Expressions section for further details.</p>
      <p>Expressions allow you to calculate new values from existing
    values. Most advanced apps utilize expressions to customize
    behavior. If you are familiar with spreadsheet formulas, you
    will find AppSheet expressions to be similar in syntax and
    meaning. At the moment, AppSheet supports a very small subset
    of the functions supported by Excel or Google Sheets. However,
    we are adding new functions every week.</p>
      <p>Expressions are utilized in a variety of AppSheet features--
    App Formulas, Default Values, Column Constraints, and Virtual
    Columns. The sample app <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/Template/SimpleDef?appName=RateCalculator-71626.html" scope="external" format="html">Rate Calculator</xref> shows the use of various
    expressions in App Formulas.</p>
      <p>AppSheet checks all expressions to ensure that they
    are correctly formed and are being used in an appropriate
    manner. For example, if an expression is being used to assign a
    default value to a column of type Number, AppSheet checks that
    the result of the expression is indeed a number.</p>
      <p>Although not an exact 1:1 match to AppSheet
    Expressions, these <xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/table/25273?hl=en.html" scope="external" format="html">Google
    Functions</xref> may provide assistance with
    syntax. </p>
      <p>An expression is built by utilizing any combination of the
    following:
    </p>
      <p>
         <b>Constants</b>
      </p>
      <p>Use any of the following values as part of a formula:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
            <b>Numbers</b>:<b> </b>You can
      use any number as part of the formula</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Dates</b>: Use format MM/DD/YYYY</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Words</b>: Use quotation marks around the
      word --&gt; e.g. "Word"
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <b>Columns</b>
      </p>
      <p>Name any column using square brackets around the exact
    column name: <b>[Column]
    </b>
      </p>
      <p>
         <b>De-references</b>
      </p>
      <p>If a field in the column structure has a reference to a row
    in another table, you can use a DE-REFERENCE expression to get
    the value of another column in that row of the
    referenced table. The format to do this is
    <b>[Column With Reference].[Column in Referenced
    Table]</b>
      </p>
      <p>Check out the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/An-app-for-a-salesperson-add-customers-orders-and-product-details?appGuidString=245700e5-9061-4045-843f-7850b5eb439a.html" scope="external" format="html">
    Order Capture</xref> sample app to see how the Order Details
    table uses DE-REFERENCING to get the price of a product with
    the expression: <b>[Product].[Price]</b>
      </p>
      <p>
         <b>[Product]</b> Is the name of the column that
    has a reference to the Products table.</p>
      <p>
         <b>[Price]</b> Is the name of the column in the
    Products table that contains the price.</p>
      <p>In the Order Capture app, there is also a formula that
    multiplies <b>[Product]</b>.<b>[Price]</b>
    with another column called
    <b>[Quantity]. </b>This is an example of a
    complex expression.
    </p>
      <p>
         <b>Built-in functions</b>
      </p>
      <p>AppSheet's list of built-in function expressions is growing
    every week:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>NOW() for the current DateTime</li>
      
         <li>TODAY() for the current Date</li>
      
         <li>TIMENOW() for the current Time</li>
      
         <li>HERE() for LatLong of the current Location</li>
      
         <li>USERNAME() for the Name of the current user</li>
      
         <li>USEREMAIL() for the Email of the current user</li>
      
         <li>UNIQUEID() to create unique Text values for keys</li>
      
         <li>ISBLANK(&lt;expression&gt;) to check if an expression is
      empty</li>
      
         <li>CONCATENATE(&lt;text-expression1&gt;,
        &lt;text-expression2&gt;, ...) to combine two or more text
      values</li>
      
         <li>LEN(&lt;text-expression&gt;) to get the length of a text
      value</li>
      
         <li>
        IF(&lt;condition&gt;,&lt;then-expression&gt;,&lt;else-expression&gt;) </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p outputclass="wysiwyg-indent2">Other Functions</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>SECOND(duration) for the Second component of a Specific
      Time</li>
      
         <li>MINUTE(duration) for the Minute component of
      a Specific Time</li>
      
         <li>HOUR(duration) for the Hour component of a
      Specific Time</li>
      
         <li>DAY(date) for the Day of the Month</li>
      
         <li>WEEKDAY(date) for the Day Number from a Date</li>
      
         <li>WEEKNUM(date,[type]) for the Week Number from a
      Date</li>
      
         <li>MONTH(date) for the Month Number from a Date</li>
      
         <li>YEAR(date) for the Year from a Date</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>For backwards compatibility, we also support the function
    syntax below for a set of functions that have been supported
    from the earliest AppSheet release.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>@(_TODAY) for Date</li>
      
         <li>@(_TIMENOW) for Time</li>
      
         <li>@(_NOW) for DateTime</li>
      
         <li>@(_HERE) for LatLong</li>
      
         <li>@(_USERNAME) for Name</li>
      
         <li>@(_USEREMAIL) for Email</li>
      
         <li>@(_UNIQUE) for unique Text values
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <b>Arithmetic</b>
      </p>
      <p>Use any of the arithmetic operators below to
    build arithmetic expressions:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
            <b>Add</b>: +</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Subtract</b>: -</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Multiply</b>: *</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Divide</b>: /</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>Each of these operators is used with two numeric expression
    parameters: 3+2, 5.0/2.3, etc. Add and Subtract can also be
    used with dates and datetime types to add or subtract days:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>TODAY() + 1 adds a day to the current Date </li>
      
         <li>TIMENOW() - 1 subtracts a day from the current
      DateTime</li>
      
         <li>TODAY() - "12/12/2001" gets a Duration between the two
      dates</li>
      
         <li>TIMENOW() + "003:03:00" adds a 3 hours and 3 minutes to
      the current DateTime</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>Combine arithmetic expressions with parentheses to form
    complex expressions like: (<b>[ColumnA]*2) +
    ([ColumnB]*3)</b> or
    <b>@(_TODAY)+([ColumnA]+1)
    </b>
      </p>
      <p>
         <b>Comparison conditions</b>
      </p>
      <p>AppSheet also supports comparison operators in expressions
    that return true or false.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
            <b>Equals</b>: =</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Not Equals</b>: &lt;&gt;</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Greater Than</b>: &gt;</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Greater Than or Equals</b>: &gt;=</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Less Than</b>: &lt;</li>
      
         <li>
            <b>Less Than or Equals</b>: &lt;=</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>Each of these operators is used with two expression
    parameters that have comparable types. For example, 5 &gt; 2 is
    valid, but 5 &gt; "Hello" is not.
    </p>
      <p>
         <b>Composite conditions</b>
      </p>
      <p>These expression combine comparison expressions utilizing
    three composition operators:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>AND(expr1, expr2, ...) : returns true if all the
      sub-expressions are true</li>
      
         <li>OR(expr1, expr2, ...): : returns true if any of the
      sub-expressions are true</li>
      
         <li>NOT(expr): returns true if the sub-expression is false
      and vice-versa</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205973178-App-formulas.dita">App formulas</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211330018-Controlling-data-inputs-with-column-constraints.dita">
        Controlling data inputs with column constraints</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="212081828-Virtual-columns.dita">Virtual
        columns</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096517-Slices.dita">Slices</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205175228-Modifying-column-structure-in-the-editor.dita">Modifying
        column structure in the editor</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>