<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBBDDAABIDControllingDdataDinputsDwithDcolumnDconstraints">
   <title>Controlling data inputs with column constraints –
  AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Every column definition has a type (that specifies what
    values are allowed in the column) as well as flags that specify
    whether the column is hidden, whether it is required for input,
    etc. This is adequate for many apps, but sometimes a more
    dynamic or data-driven mechanism is needed. This is what Column
    Constraints provide-- a column constraint is an <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">expression</xref> that is
    dynamically computed to determine the behavior of a specific
    column in an input form.</p>
      <p>Four different column constraints can be defined for
    each column:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Show_If</li>
      
         <li>Valid_If</li>
      
         <li>Required_If</li>
      
         <li>Editable_If</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>To add a column constraint, use the Column Structure tab of
    the Data pane in the <xref href="206559378-Advanced-app-customizations.dita" scope="external">Advanced Editor</xref> and click the "Edit"
    icon at the left of the corresponding column definition.
     </p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Expression
    components</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>These expression components utilize the following
    formatting:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Name any column using square brackets around the exact
      column name: <b>[ColumnName]</b>. When
      combining a [ColumnName] with another value, put the
      expression in (parentheses).</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use <b>[_THIS]</b> as a
      "virtual column name." It refers to the value of the current
      column (used in Valid_If, Show_If, Required_If
      conditions).</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use <b>[_THISROW]</b> as a
      "virtual reference column." It refers to the current row. For
      example, use [_THISROW].[ColumnName].</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Highlight all values with "quotes," except for
      numeric values: <b>"Value"</b>.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Numeric values are noted just as they are,
      e.g <b>10</b>.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Show_If</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-medium>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-medium">A Show_If column
    constraint is used when an input field should be
    shown or hidden depending on the values of one or more earlier
    field values in the form.</ph>
      </p>
      <p>A Show_If constraint is a condition expression that
    determines whether or not an input for this
    column should be shown in a form. This is usually based
    on the values of other columns. For example, the condition
    expression <i>
            <b>[UserRating] =
    "5"</b> 
         </i>will display this column if the value
    in the "UserRating" column is "5". The condition
    expression <i>
            <b>[Status] =
    "Green" </b>
         </i>will display this column if the
    value in the "Status" column is
    "Green"<i>
            <b>.</b>
         </i>
      </p>
      <p>The special column name "_THIS" is used to refer to the
    current column being constrained. For example, a Show_If
    condition
    of <i>
            <b>ISBLANK([_THIS])</b>
         </i> can
    be used to show an input field only if the column itself
    is blank. The column will be hidden, once a data value has
    been entered and saved for the column. </p>
      <p>Show_If conditions can also be defined on Page Header
    columns to <xref href="206435467.dita" scope="external">conditionally show or hide entire pages</xref>.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Valid_If</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Every input in a form is checked for validity based on its
    type. For example, a column of Number type will not accept
    "Hello" as an input. A Valid_If column constraint is used in
    situations where the validity of the input requires richer
    data-dependent logic.</p>
      <p>A Valid_If constraint is a condition expression that
    determines whether or not the form input for this
    column is valid. For example, the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/template/AppDef?appName=RateCalculator-71626.html" scope="external" format="html">
    Quote Calculator sample</xref> utilizes a Valid_If condition
    to ensure that the Cost Per Hour must be less than
    $20.</p>
      <p>Here are examples of commonly used Valid_If constraints:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Does the value of the column satisfy a simple condition?
        <ul>
          
               <li>For example, comparing the value with a
          constant: <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-medium>-->
                     <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-medium">
                        <i>[_THIS] &gt;
          5</i>
                     </ph>
                  </b>
               </li>
          
               <li>For example, comparing the value with another column:
          <i>
                     <b>[_THIS] &gt; [ColumnA]</b>
                  </i>
               </li>
        
            </ul>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>Is the value of the column in a list?
        <ul>
          
               <li>A list of constant values. For
          example: <b>
                     <i>{100, 200,
          300}</i>
                  </b>
               </li>
          
               <li>A list of values from a column in another
          table. For
          example: <i>
                     <b>LookupTable[ColumnC] </b>. </i>This
          is particularly useful if the list of allowed values
          should itself be allowed to change while the app is being
          used.</li>
          
               <li>A list of values from specific rows in another table.
          For
          example: <i>
                     <b>SELECT(LookupTable[ColumnC],
          [ReportDate] &gt; Today() -
          7) </b>
                  </i>specifies that the rows in
          LookupTable should be filtered to find those where
          ReportDate is within the last week, and the
          corresponding values in ColumnC of LookupTable become the
          allowed list of valid values.</li>
        
            </ul>
      
         </li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>Whenever a list of allowed values is provided, it is
    actually a syntactic shortform for an expression that uses the
    IN function. For example, <b>
            <i>{100, 200,
    300} </i>
         </b>is the same
    as <i>
            <b>IN([_THIS], {100, 200,
    300})</b>. </i>In input forms in the mobile app,
    columns with such Valid_If constraints are provided with
    dropdowns or enumeration selectors that reflect the list of
    choices.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Valid_If and
    Dependent Dropdowns</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Dependent dropdowns are a common design pattern in apps that
    capture input. For example, consider an app like <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/An-app-to-add-and-update-sales-leads?appGuidString=2f43eb0a-1dbf-417f-9e2d-ccb8b9600d02.html" scope="external" format="html">
    this Lead Tracker sample</xref> that asks for the 'Lead Region'
    (America, Asia, Europe) and then for a 'Country' within that
    region. This is actually requires relatively complex
    logic, but AppSheet tries to make it simple. Dependent
    dropdowns are driven by a separate lookup table.</p>
      <p>In the sample, there is a separate 'Regions' lookup table
    with two columns: 'Region' and 'Country'. This acts as the
    lookup table for allowed combinations of regions and countries.
    <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/template/showtable?allowExternalRedirect=false&amp;appName=DependentDropdowns-16350&amp;tableName=Regions.html" scope="external" format="html">
    Here is the table data</xref> used in the sample.</p>
      <p>The 'Lead Region' column has a regular Valid_If
    constraint: <b>
            <i>Regions[Region]</i>
         </b>.
    Therefore, when a new entry is being added, the input for this
    column shows three choices: America, Asia, and Europe.</p>
      <p>Likewise, the 'Country' column also specifies a
    similar Valid_If constraint:
    <b>
            <i>Regions[Country]</i>
         </b>. However, because it
    follows the 'Lead Region' column and because both specify
    columns from the same lookup table 'Regions', AppSheet
    recognizes the intent and implements a dependent
    dropdown. </p>
      <p>Internally, AppSheet creates an expression to capture
    the allowed set of values for the 'Country' column. The
    expression must say (in English!):</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Look at the Regions table</li>
      
         <li>Filter the rows to make sure that the Region column of
      the table matches the value in the 'Lead Region' column of
      the row being edited in the form</li>
      
         <li>Now extract the 'Country' column from those filtered
      rows</li>
      
         <li>Eliminate any duplicates --- these are the allowed
      countries!</li>
      
         <li>Recompute this list each time the 'Lead Region' is
      changed</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>Strictly for an expression afficionado, here is the full
    underlying AppSheet expression: <i>
            <b>IN( [_THIS],
    SELECT(Regions[Country], [_THISROW].[Lead Region] =
    [Region]))</b>
         </i>
      </p>
      <p>While most app creators will never need to express something
    this complicated, you could infact provide this expression as a
    Valid_If constraint. It is useful to know for advanced use
    cases. For example, instead of using an equality condition, an
    app creator could use inequality or richer expressions to build
    very expressive dynamic dropdowns.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Required_If </b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>A 'required' input is one that must be filled in
    before the record can be saved. A Required_If column
    constraint is used when a field is 'required'
    depending on the values of earlier form inputs.</p>
      <p>A Required_If constraint is a condition expression that
    indicates whether a specific column is 'required' in an input
    form. It is usually based on the values of other columns
    (e.g. <i>
            <b>[Country Of Birth]
    = "USA"</b>
         </i>).</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Editable_If </b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>When an input column is 'editable' it can be modified by the
    user. The Editable_If column constraint is useful to lock down
    a certain column (prevent user edits) depending on the value
    already in the column or on the values of other
    columns.</p>
      <p>An Editable_If constraint is a condition expression that
    indicates whether a specific column is 'editable' in an input
    form (e.g. <i>
            <b>ISBLANK([_THIS]</b>
         </i>) allows
    edits if the current value is blank, but once there is a value,
    it cannot be edited). Another common use case is to give
    certain users the ability to edit a field but make it readonly
    for others (eg: <i>
            <b>USEREMAIL()
    = "manager@acme.com"</b>
         </i>)</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Best
    practices</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Column constraints give you the power to define very
    subtle or complex conditions, but end-users will only see the
    resulting behavior. As an app creator, it is
    important to provide adequate explanations for the
    columns affected by these expressions--particularly for
    Valid_If conditions, so that users will know how to proceed if
    they provide an invalid column value. The best way to do so is
    by providing meaningful column descriptions.</p>
      <p>When these expressions reference other fields in the
    row (not just [_THIS]), it is best to ensure that they are
    always "backward" references to fields that the end-user
    has already seen (meaning columns that come
    <i>before</i> the column being considered in the spreadsheet
    and appear <i>above</i> the column being considered in the
    Column Structure tab). Conditions containing "forward"
    references may be confusing to end-users and may cause
    problems with multi-page forms.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206435467-Multi-page-forms-with-conditional-branching.dita">
        Multi-page forms with conditional branching</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205973178-App-formulas.dita">App formulas</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205113938-Defining-and-using-slices.dita">Defining
        and using slices</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205856187-Column-types.dita">Column types</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>