<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBEIAIIIIDInformationDforDanDITDdepartment">
   <title>Information for an IT department – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>If you are an AppSheet innovator at a larger company with an
    IT department, you may need to provide some
    information about AppSheet as you progress
    towards deploying your apps to others within the company.
    In this document, we've put together an "FAQ for IT".
    Many of the topics have more detailed information via separate
    articles in our Zendesk documentation site.</p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
    Architecture questions
    </ph>How are AppSheet apps created?</b>
      </p>
      <p>Apps are created on the AppSheet website. Each app is based
    on one or more 'tables'. Typically each table is a spreadsheet,
    but in general, each table is linked to a source of <xref href="205096958-Mobile-apps-driven-by-the-structure-of-data.dita">structured
    data</xref>. The rest of the app is defined via configuration
    options. There is no code involved, so apps can be created in
    minutes.
    
    <b>How are AppSheet apps distributed?</b>
      </p>
      <p>Apps are distributed by sending an <xref href="205803897-Sharing-and-distributing-your-app.dita">install
    email to desired users with an install link</xref>. Users open the
    install email on a mobile device, click on the install link,
    and can install the apps instantly. 
    
    <b>What is the high-level architecture of
    AppSheet?</b>
      </p>
      <p>Each mobile app is derived from and based on backend data,
    typically a spreadsheet hosted on a cloud storage system like
    Google Drive, Dropbox, or Office365. On the mobile device, a
    copy of the data is cached locally, in order to permit offline
    operation. Whenever changes are made in the app, or when the
    users explicitly choose to sync the app, the <xref href="206366667-Sync-between-the-app-and-the-backend.dita">changes
    from the app are moved to the backend spreadsheet, and vice
    versa</xref>. All communication between the app and the backend
    data happens through the cloud-hosted AppSheet web service.
    
    <b>Where is AppSheet hosted?</b>
      </p>
      <p>AppSheet's web service is hosted on Microsoft's Azure web
    hosting infrastructure.
    
    <b>Can AppSheet be hosted on-premise within the
    company?</b>
      </p>
      <p>No, AppSheet is hosted in the cloud. It is not an on-premise
    service.
    
    <b>Is AppSheet reliable?</b>
      </p>
      <p>The AppSheet web service is highly reliable with
    99.99% monthly uptime. The reliability derives from both the
    redundant cloud architecture as well as the reliability of the
    underlying cloud infrastructure services like Microsoft Azure.
    The greatest source of reliability concerns for a mobile app
    stem from <xref href="205096588-What-if-I-lose-connectivity-.dita">connectivity
    issues</xref>. AppSheet is explicitly designed for environments
    with bad or intermittent connectivity, and the data
    synchronization technology handles various kinds of failures
    seamlessly without data loss.
    
    <b>Is each app separately deployed via the iOS or Android
    app store?</b>
      </p>
      <p>No. Mobile apps run on the device within a common 'host' app
    called AppSheet. This host app is already available in the iOS
    and Android app stores. This allows any new app to be <xref href="205111288-Traditional-vs-instant-app-deployment.dita">instantly
    deployable</xref>.</p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
    Data architecture questions
    </ph>What sources of data can AppSheet
    access?</b>
      </p>
      <p>AppSheet apps can access spreadsheet data from Google Drive,
    Office365, Dropbox, Box, and Smartsheet. More data sources are
    being added actively. Connectors to Salesforce and SQL
    databases will shortly be available for early
    adopters. 
    
    <b>Do we <i>have</i> to use data in a
    spreadsheet?</b>
      </p>
      <p>AppSheet is meant for non-developers to easily build apps,
    which is why we have emphasized access to spreadsheets. Over
    the next few months, we will also be supporting more
    traditional enterprise data sources as well.
    
    <b>Can you connect to our corporate database or resources
    behind a firewall?</b>
      </p>
      <p>Not directly. The AppSheet architecture permits our service
    to interact with data sources via a web service that acts as a
    proxy to the actual data. If the actual data is behind a
    firewall, you (or your IT department) will need to create a web
    service that acts as a proxy for the data. This is a relatively
    straightforward task for a web developer and we can
    help enterprise customers with sample code for this
    proxy service.</p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
    Mobile platform questions
    </ph>What mobile platforms do you support?</b>
      </p>
      <p>AppSheet apps run on iOS and Android devices. We encourage
    iOS version 8.0 and higher, and Android version 4.3 and higher.
    Lower versions of these operating systems can cause subtle bugs
    or performance problems in certain scenarios. 
    
    <b>Can the apps run in a browser?</b>
      </p>
      <p>Yes. While we primarily focus on mobile devices, many
    AppSheet customers also run their apps in a web browser,
    usually within an iframe. In fact, on unsupported mobile
    platforms like Windows Phone, we recommend running within a
    browser. Most of the app functionality is supported in a
    browser (except offline image caching and bar code scanning).
    We recommend a modern browser and the apps work best on Chrome.
    AppSheet does not work on IE versions lower than V10.0.</p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
    Functionality questions
    </ph>Do you support feature X?</b>
      </p>
      <p>We add features to AppSheet at a rapid rate-- it is not
    uncommon for us to unblock a customer by adding a new feature
    in a couple of weeks. There is an active <xref href="http://community.appsheet.com.html" scope="external" format="html">user community</xref> that
    drives and prioritizes our feature investments. All features
    are initially announced via the community for trial and then
    promptly added to the Zendesk documentation.</p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
    Security questions
    </ph>Where can I learn about the security
    model?</b>
      </p>
      <p>We have written a short article describing different aspects
    of <xref href="209969577-How-do-I-design-a-secure-app-.dita">the
    AppSheet security model</xref>. We are happy to share further
    detail with IT experts.
    
    <b>What data does AppSheet store on its
    servers?</b>
      </p>
      <p>The AppSheet service records user signup information and
    access tokens in order to be able to access backend spreadsheet
    data. The definition of each app is also stored. <xref href="205176168-Where-is-my-data-cached-.dita">The actual data used
    by each app is not copied to the AppSheet service</xref>-- instead
    it passes through the AppSheet service as it flows between the
    mobile device and the backend cloud storage system chosen by
    the customer. </p>
      <p>AppSheet does record usage events and also logs data updates
    in order to support diagnostics, debugging, analytics, and
    billing. We are introducing an option for customers to limit
    the duration for which this information stays in the system
    logs.
    
    <b>Has AppSheet passed security and/or privacy
    audits?</b>
      </p>
      <p>As a startup company, we have focused for the last year on
    building a secure and scalable architecture. We have designed
    for security and for data privacy. Over the next year, we will
    be working with established auditors to gain
    official compliance certifications.</p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
    Support and services questions
    </ph>What is the response time for product support
    questions?</b>
      </p>
      <p>Our user community forum is the venue for most support
    questions. Not only is every member of our team actively
    engaged with user questions, we also have power users who are
    community moderators who also help all members of the AppSheet
    community with questions and issues. Most issues are
    responded to within hours and resolved within the day. We also
    offer premium support for customers in higher subscription
    plans.
    
    <b>Do you provide professional services for app
    development?</b>
      </p>
      <p>We try to focus on core platform development. For some key
    strategic engagements, we can help customers with app
    development. The preferred model is for our customers to work
    with one of our solution partners-- these are
    professionals who are experts on the AppSheet platform.
    Depending on your needs, we can identify suitable solution
    partners. </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="215643667-Pricing-billing-and-subscription-plans.dita">Pricing,
        billing, and subscription plans</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="214831228-Launching-AppSheet-apps-from-other-AppSheet-apps.dita">
        Launching AppSheet apps from other AppSheet apps</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803947-Check-your-app-for-deployment.dita">Check your
        app for deployment</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206951007-Application-crashes-errors.dita">Application
        crashes / errors</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205857527-Automated-usage-summary-emails.dita">Automated
        usage summary emails</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>