<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBFDFDHBIDLimitsDonDdataDsize">
   <title>Limits on data size – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet is meant for mobile apps that are designed to work
    seamlessly despite intermittent connectivity or completely
    offline. As a result, all data used by the app must be cached
    locally on the mobile device. This is an important factor
    to consider when designing your app. </p>
      <p>Ideally, you should make your data set as small as possible
    to achieve the desired functionality.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b>Actual limits</b>
      </p>
      <p>Do not build an AppSheet app against a huge data set.
    What is "huge"? For an AppSheet app, the compressed data size
    limit is 5MB or 10MB (depending on the device) for all the data
    in one app. It is difficult to translate this accurately into a
    specific number of rows or columns because compressed data size
    depends on how much repetition there is in the data. For
    example, a large spreadsheet with a lot of empty cells will
    probably compress better than a smaller spreadsheet with no
    empty cells. In general, the fewer cells in the sheet,
    the better.</p>
      <p>In the future, we may increase the 5MB/10MB limit.</p>
      <p>"External" data like images and documents are not included
    in this data size limit. You can definitely have applications
    with many rows and an image in every row. Images and documents
    are not cached locally on the device by default. If you do
    enable the option to cache images for offline access, they are
    stored in a different location on the device that does not have
    the same size limitations.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b>Performance concerns</b>
      </p>
      <p>In practice today, this is not a meaningful limit, because
    system performance degrades well before you reach the limit.
    This happens for three reasons:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Slow iterative development-- the data set is checked
      repeatedly during app development to ensure that the app is
      consistent with the data</li>
      
         <li>Long sync times-- when data is synchronized between the
      device and the backend, the delay depends on the size of the
      data set. </li>
      
         <li>Sluggish app behavior-- large data sets can make the app
      itself sluggish in its interactions like scrolling, search,
      etc.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b>Mitigations</b>
      </p>
      <p>Always check if your sheets have empty rows in them. In
    particular, some sheets have hundreds of empty rows at the
    bottom. Removing these rows will improve performance.</p>
      <p>Also check if your sheets have many extra worksheets that
    are not being used by the app at all. Removing extra worksheets
    will improve performance.</p>
      <p>In some circumstances though, the underlying dataset is
    large and just cannot be changed. If so, consider using either
    of these options:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Use a Security Filter to forcibly limit the data sent to
      the mobile app.</li>
      
         <li>use a slice to subset the data and strictly use
      only the slice in your app. This allows AppSheet to send just
      that subset of data to the device.</li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>It is often the case that even if an app requires large data
    sets, much of the data is read-only. In this situation, you can
    improve some aspects of app performance by separating the
    read-only data sets into a separate table or tables from those
    that are writeable/updateable. </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096517-Slices.dita">Slices</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="215724197-Including-PDF-s-in-your-application.dita">Including
        PDF's in your application</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="212081828-Virtual-columns.dita">Virtual
        columns</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206122068-Conditional-formatting.dita">Conditional
        formatting</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>