<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBFGEDGGHDPricingDbillingDandDsubscriptionDplans">
   <title>Pricing, billing, and subscription plans – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>AppSheet is a subscription service.</p>
      <p>We have structured our plans and pricing to encourage
    adoption with minimal friction and barriers to use. If none of
    our plans are appropriate for your scenario, we encourage you
    to contact us.</p>
      <p>By default, every user account is free until a specific
    subscription plan is chosen. Please review the list of
    available plans at our <xref href="http://www.appsheet.com/home/pricing.html" scope="external" format="html">Pricing
    page</xref>.</p>
      <p>You can modify your plan via the Billing tab on your account
    page.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Appropriate
    usage of each type of plan</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>AppSheet is free only for prototyping and for personal
    projects. While you are evaluating AppSheet, you are not
    required to pay as you evaluate all of the platform features.
    In fact, we encourage you to try all the features of the
    platform. However, as you deploy your apps to others and start
    to use them in your organization, you should change your
    account to a paid plan. When you take your app through the
    'Deploy Check' process, you will be warned if your account is
    not on a paid plan and that is the preferred stage at which to
    sign up for a paid plan. </p>
      <p>
         <b>Per-user Plans</b>
      </p>
      <p>When you build apps for users within your organization, you
    probably need to identify specific people who will use the app
    (perhaps members of your team or department). This is an ideal
    case for a per-user subscription plan. In a per-user plan, you
    purchase licenses for every user of your apps. Each licensed
    user can use many of your apps. So for example, if there are
    ten people in your team, you should purchase ten licenses and
    you can create one app, two apps, or any number of apps that
    are used by these users.</p>
      <p>
         <b>Per-app plans</b>
      </p>
      <p>If you build apps to send to a large base of occasional
    users (for example, for a community event, or to share your
    product catalog with your customers), a per-app subscription
    plan is probably appropriate. Per-app plans differ from
    per-user plans in that you cannot limit the app to specific
    users. They are meant for situations where data security is not
    a concern. In a per-app plan, you purchase licenses for each
    deployable app in your account. So for example, if you had two
    apps that you want to deploy widely, you would purchase two app
    licenses.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Multiple plans
    within the same account</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>Each AppSheet account has a single subscription plan. It is
    not possible to have some apps in an account associated with
    one plan and other apps associated with a different plan. We
    recognize though that this is a requirement for some of our
    customers and will release updates to accommodate such need.
    For now, you can create additional AppSheet accounts to add
    apps to a different type of plan.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Changing plans
    and licenses</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>You can change your subscription plan or the number of
    licenses on your plan at any time. Your charges are immediately
    applied and any charges are pro-rated to reflect the
    changes.</p>
      <p>For example, assume you have five users of your app and have
    purchased five user licenses with a per-user plan. If you need
    to send the app to more users, you should simply increase the
    number of licenses via the Billing tab on your account page.
    Likewise, you can decrease the number of licenses to reflect
    lower expected usage or change plans.</p>
      <p>It is uncommon to switch from a paid subscription plan to no
    plan unless you expect your apps to see absolutely no usage at
    all. It is usually more appropriate to modify the number of
    licenses to reflect periods of lower expected usage. </p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Enforcement of
    plans and licenses</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>We try to ensure that app usage is never compromised because
    of short-term discrepancies in plans and licenses. If the
    actual number of users for your app crosses your license
    limits, we will still serve the app to those users. Likewise,
    if you are on the wrong plan or there is a problem with your
    credit card, we will continue to serve the app to your users.
    In both cases, we do this for a reasonable interval so that you
    have the time to modify your plan appropriately.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Billing</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>You may choose and adjust your Subscription plan until
    you are confident that you have selected the correct plan for
    you or your business. Next, enter your Payment Method. Your
    credit card is charged on a monthly schedule based on the
    particular plan and license count you have chosen. AppSheet
    processes credit card payments through Stripe, a popular and
    reliable platform for credit card payments.</p>
      <p>If you make changes in the middle of the month, the pricing
    is pro-rated to the time of the change. You may see adjustments
    to the next month's billing to reflect these changes. For
    example, if you lower the number of licenses, you will see
    credit reflected in your next month's bill. Please contact us
    at any time if you have questions about your
    billing. </p>
      <p>As a paid subscriber, you get a monthly email with a summary
    of the last payment directly from Stripe, please use this
    receipt as your bill. Unfortunately we cannot produce
    individual invoices other than the emails sent to you directly
    from Stripe. Large Accounts may contact us directly for
    specific invoicing procedures.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Credit card
    failures</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>When there is a failure processing a credit card payment,
    you will receive an email notification indicating that the
    credit card information should be updated. You can go to your
    account Billing page and update your card information. In the
    interim, your app status will remain active and the access to
    your app won't be affected for up to 15 days from the date the
    email notification was sent. </p>
      <p>Our credit-card charges are USD-based, and cards based in
    countries outside the US may have security constraints that
    disable foreign charges. Unfortunately, we are unable at the
    moment to charge directly in currencies other than USD.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Receipts and
    invoices</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Every time your credit card is charged via Stripe, you will
    receive an invoice email from Stripe showing what you have been
    charged by AppSheet and the details of the invoice. If you have
    not received these invoice emails, please check your email
    folders in case the mail has been routed to a Promotions or
    Junk mail folder. If you still cannot find the invoice, we can
    manually retrieve the invoice for you.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769278-Plan-upgrade-required.dita">Plan upgrade
        required</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="207277097-Deploy-your-app.dita">Deploy your
        app</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="214831228-Launching-AppSheet-apps-from-other-AppSheet-apps.dita">
        Launching AppSheet apps from other AppSheet apps</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="215724197-Including-PDF-s-in-your-application.dita">Including
        PDF's in your application</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="214808888-Information-for-an-IT-department.dita">Information
        for an IT department</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>