<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBFJHFAFHDManagingDAppDVersions">
   <title>Managing App Versions – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>As you edit your app definition in the basic or advanced
    editor, AppSheet maintains earlier versions of the app. This is
    useful if you need to recover edits that you've overwritten.
    The Edit History is accessible from the Manage pane in the app
    editors.</p>
      <p>
    HOW DOES IT WORK?</p>
      <p>Every time you save any information via the basic or the
    advanced editor, AppSheet saves away the current version in an
    edit history log. Sometimes these changes are explicit.
    Sometimes they are doing automatically by the system (eg: when
    checking the consistency of your app).
    </p>
      <p>WHAT CAN YOU DO WITH AN OLDER VERSION? </p>
      <p>You can open and view any older version. This opens the
    editor in a new browser tab and displays that version of the
    app in read-only mode. The emulator shows a preview as well.
    You can choose to "Restore" the app --- i.e. make this version
    of the app the new latest version. The Restore action is also
    available via the Manage pane in the app editor when you have
    opened the specific app version.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>WHAT CAN'T YOU DO WITH AN OLDER VERSION? </p>
      <p>You cannot edit a specific version of the app! You can only
    edit the latest (i.e. current) version. Further, if the
    underlying data spreadsheet has changed its structure since
    then, the app itself may not run in the emulator.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205803977-Transferring-app-ownership-to-another-user.dita">
        Transferring app ownership to another user</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="214808888-Information-for-an-IT-department.dita">Information
        for an IT department</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="206096517-Slices.dita">Slices</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205769278-Plan-upgrade-required.dita">Plan upgrade
        required</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="217180468-Team-collaboration-shared-authoring-of-apps.dita">
        Team collaboration, shared authoring of apps</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>