<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBGBIICJIDOtherDexpressions">
   <title>Other expressions – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Expressions may be used in various AppSheet features --
    Initial Values, App Formulas, Virtual Columns and Column
    Constraints (Valid_If, Show_If, Required_If) -- to customize
    app behavior and provide your users with advanced
    functionality. Expressions in this article align with the
    <b>Other Expressions </b>in
    the <b>Expression Builder</b> of
    the <b>Advanced Editor</b>. The
    Expression Builder can be found anywhere you are able to
    enter a formula/expression, noted by a little "flask"
    symbol next to it. Clicking on the flask will bring up the
    Expression Builder. The Expression Builder is "context-aware,"
    i.e. it shows you expressions that are relevant to the specific
    table you are editing. Also included in the builder is an
    "instant" expression checker, to verify that the expression is
    valid.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Expression
    c<!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
               <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">omponents</ph>
            </ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>Use any of the following values as part of an
    expression:</p>
      <p>
         <b>Constants</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Words, Dates, Times. Highlight all
      values with <b>"quotes"</b>, except for
      numeric values,
      e.g. <b>"Value"</b>, <b>"01/01/2016", "12:00:00"
      for time, "012:00:00" for duration.</b>
         </li>
      
         <li>Numeric values are noted just as they are,
      e.g <b>10</b>.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <b>Column Names</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Name any column using square brackets around the exact
      column name: <b>[ColumnName]</b>. When
      combining a [ColumnName] with another value, put the
      expression in <b>(parentheses)</b>. May be
      used in any expression; however, when used in the
      Initial Value feature, it may only refer to a separate
      table.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Other
    conditions</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">Other expressions impact a
    range of scenarios and don't fit into any of the previous
    Yes/No, Math, Time, Columns, or Lists expression
    categories. <!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">AppSheet
    conditions are</ph> not a 1:1 match with Google Sheets
    functions; however, in some cases the formatting similarity may
    help you construct your expressions. Alternatively, if the
    formatting is not similar, the Google Sheets function page may
    provide context for use of the function</ph><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">.</ph> If available, see the
    Google Sheets function link in parentheses next to applicable
    operators.</p>
      <p>
         <b>Current operators</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>LEN(&lt;text-expression&gt;) to get the length of a text
      value  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3094081.html" scope="external" format="html">LEN</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>CONCATENATE(&lt;text-expression&gt;,
        &lt;text-expression2&gt;, ...) to combine two or more text
      values  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3094123?hl=en.html" scope="external" format="html">CONCATENATE</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>LEFT({Text},{Number}) Returns a substring from the
      beginning of a specified string.  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3094079?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105625.html" scope="external" format="html">LEFT</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>RIGHT({Text},{Number}) Returns a substring from the end
      of a specified string.  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3094087?hl=en.html" scope="external" format="html">RIGHT</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>FIND({Text},{Text}) Returns the position at which a
      string is first found within text, case-sensitive.
       (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3094126?hl=en.html" scope="external" format="html">FIND</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>IF({condition},{then-expression},{else-expression})
       (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093364?hl=en.html" scope="external" format="html">IF</xref>)
       The last two values (then, else) of the expression,
      must be of the same type, i.e. text, number, etc.
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>UNIQUEID() to create unique Text values for Keys</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>HERE() for LatLong of the current user</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>USEREMAIL() for the Email of the current user</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>USERNAME() for the Name of the current user</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <b>Legacy operators</b>
      </p>
      <p>For backwards compatibility, we also support the function
    syntax below for a set of functions that have been supported
    from the earliest AppSheet release.</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>@(_UNIQUE) to create unique Text values for
      Keys</li>
      
         <li>@(_HERE) for LatLong of the current user</li>
      
         <li>@(_USEREMAIL) for the Email of the current user</li>
      
         <li>@(_USERNAME) for the Name of the current user</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Common and
    complex expressions</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>
         <b>Common expressions</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>LEN("AppSheet"): Returns 8.</li>
      
         <li>CONCATENATE([First Name]," ",[Last Name]): Returns a Full
      Name.</li>
      
         <li>IF([Status]="Open"."Green","Red"): Returns "Green" when
      Status equals Open; otherwise, returns "Red".</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>Example: Column called [AppName] with a value of
    "Sales-10305"</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>LEFT[AppName, 5]: Returns "Sales".</li>
      
         <li>RIGHT[AppName, 5]: Returns "10305"</li>
      
         <li>LEFT([AppName], FIND("-",[AppName])) gives you
      "Sales"</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>Use the following expressions in the Initial Value feature
    of the <b>Advanced Editor</b>:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>UNIQUEID(): Use to generate a unique Text value, e.g. a
      unique Invoice ID.</li>
      
         <li>HERE():  Use to identify the user's
      current LatLong.</li>
      
         <li>USEREMAIL(): Use to populate record value based on
      user login</li>
      
         <li>USERNAME(): This value is not reliably populated by cloud
      providers, please defer to USEREMAIL(). To obtain USERNAME()
      in this case, utilize a reference table based on the
      USEREMAIL(). See <xref href="205319178-References-between-tables.dita">References between
      tables</xref>.
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <b>Complex expressions</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>LEN([_THIS])&lt;=10: Use this expression in the Valid_If
      Constraint to restrict form field input to a maximum of 10
      characters.</li>
      
         <li>
      IF([Status]="Open","Green",IF([Status]="Closed","Red",IF([Status]="Not
      Started","Blue","Purple"))): Returns "Green" when Status
      equals Open; returns "Red" when Status equals Closed; returns
      "Blue" when status equals Not Started; otherwise, returns
      "Purple".</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Other
    expression patterns and examples</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">From
    the <b>Expression Builder</b>, follow the
    pattern below for a null, numeric, text, email, name, or
    LatLong result. See examples for further clarity.</ph>
      </p>
      <table>
         <tgroup cols="3">
            <colspec colname="col1"/>
            <colspec colname="col2"/>
            <colspec colname="col3"/>
            <tbody>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>Pattern</entry>
          
                  <entry>Result</entry>
          
                  <entry>Example</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          [{ref_column}].[{lookup_column}]</entry>
          
                  <entry>null</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          [Ref].[Ref]</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>LEN({*})</entry>
          
                  <entry>Number</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          LEN([ChangeTimestamp])</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          CONCATENATE({*},{*})</entry>
          
                  <entry>Text</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          CONCATENATE([ChangeTimestamp],"value_1")</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          LEFT({Text},{Number})</entry>
          
                  <entry>Text</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          LEFT([Text],1)</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          RIGHT({Text},{Number})</entry>
          
                  <entry>Text</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          RIGHT([Text],1)</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          FIND({Text},{Text})</entry>
          
                  <entry>Number</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          FIND([Text],"text value")</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          IF({Yes/No},{*},{*})</entry>
          
                  <entry>*</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          IF([Yes/No],"value_1","value_2")</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          USERNAME()</entry>
          
                  <entry>Name</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          USERNAME()</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          USEREMAIL()</entry>
          
                  <entry>Email</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          USEREMAIL()</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>
          UNIQUEID()</entry>
          
                  <entry>Text</entry>
          
                  <entry>
          UNIQUEID()</entry>
        
               </row>
               <row>
          
                  <entry>HERE()</entry>
          
                  <entry>LatLong</entry>
          
                  <entry>HERE()</entry>
        
               </row>
            </tbody>
         </tgroup>
      </table>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216748117-Lists-expressions-and-Aggregates.dita">Lists
        expressions and Aggregates</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216748067-Time-expressions.dita">Time
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216807178-Required-If.dita">Required_If</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216748007-Yes-No-expressions.dita">Yes/No
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>