<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBGHEIAAHDYesDNoDexpressions">
   <title>Yes/No expressions – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p>Expressions may be used in various AppSheet features --
    Initial Values, App Formulas, Virtual Columns and Column
    Constraints (Valid_If, Show_If, Required_If) -- to customize
    app behavior and provide your users with advanced
    functionality. Expressions in this article align with the
    <b>Yes/No Expressions</b> in
    the <b>Expression Builder</b> of
    the <b>Advanced Editor. </b>The
    Expression Builder can be found anywhere you are able to
    enter a formula/expression, noted by a little "flask"
    symbol next to it. Clicking on the flask will bring up the
    Expression Builder. The Expression Builder is "context-aware,"
    i.e. it shows you expressions that are relevant to the specific
    table you are editing. Also included in the builder is an
    "instant" expression checker, to verify that the expression is
    valid. </p>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Expression
    components</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Use any of the following values as part of an
    expression:</p>
      <p>
         <b>Constants</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Words, Dates, Times. Highlight all values with
      <b>"quotes"</b>, except for numeric values,
      e.g. <b>"Value"</b>,
      <b>"01/01/2016"</b>,<b> "12:00:00" for
      time, "012:00:00" for duration.</b>
         </li>
      
         <li>Numeric values are noted just as they are,
      e.g <b>10</b>.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <b>Column Names</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Name any column using square brackets around the exact
      column name: <b>[ColumnName</b>
            <b>]</b>.
      When combining a [ColumnName] with another value, put the
      expression in <b>(parentheses)</b>. May
      be used in any expression; however, when used in the
      Initial Value feature, it may only refer to a separate
      table.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Yes/No
    conditions</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>Yes/No Expressions utilize comparison operators that return
    a True or False result displayed as a Yes or No in AppSheet.
    These Yes/No expressions are composed of Comparison Operators,
    Composite Conditions, and Other Conditions.<b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-pink>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-pink"> </ph>
         </b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">AppSheet conditions are not a 1:1 match
    with Google Sheets functions; however, in some cases the
    formatting similarity may help you construct your expressions.
    Alternatively, if the formatting is not similar, the Google
    Sheets function page may provide context for use of the
    function</ph><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">.</ph> If available, see the
    Google Sheets function link in parentheses next to applicable
    operators. </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">
            <b>Comparison
    operators</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">AppSheet supports
    Comparison Conditions by using these comparison operators with
    two expression parameters that have comparable types. For
    example, 5 &gt; 2 is valid, but 5 &gt; "Hello" is not
    valid.</ph>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Equals: =  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093593?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105518.html" scope="external" format="html">EQ</xref>)
      </li>
      
         <li>Not Equals: &lt;&gt;  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093981?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105518.html" scope="external" format="html">NE</xref>)
      </li>
      
         <li>Greater Than: &gt;  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3098240?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105518.html" scope="external" format="html">GT</xref>)
      </li>
      
         <li>Greater Than or Equals: &gt;=  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093975?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105518.html" scope="external" format="html">GTE</xref>)
      </li>
      
         <li>Less Than: &lt;  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093596?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105518.html" scope="external" format="html">LT</xref>)
      </li>
      
         <li>Less Than or Equals: &lt;=  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093976?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105518.html" scope="external" format="html">LTE</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">
            <b>Composition
    operators</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">AppSheet supports
    Composite Conditions by using composition operators with
    comparison operators.</ph>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>AND({cond_1},..,{cond_n}): returns true if all the
      sub-expressions are true  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093301.html" scope="external" format="html">AND</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>OR({cond_1},..,{cond_n}): returns true if any of the
      sub-expressions are true  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093306?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105413.html" scope="external" format="html">OR</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>NOT({cond_1}): returns true if the sub-expression is
      false and vice-versa  (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093305?hl=en&amp;ref_topic=3105413.html" scope="external" format="html">NOT</xref>)
      </li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <b>Other operators</b>
      </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-color-black>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-color-black">AppSheet supports the
    following additional operators:</ph>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>ISBLANK({*}) returns true if an expression is empty
       (<xref href="https://support.google.com/docs/answer/3093290?hl=en.html" scope="external" format="html">ISBLANK</xref>)
      </li>
      
         <li>CONTAINS({*},{*}): returns true if value contains</li>
      
         <li>IN({*},{List}): returns true if a value is in a list</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Common and
    complex expressions</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>
         <b>Common expressions</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>AND([Color]="Green",[CompleteDate]&gt;TODAY())</li>
      
         <li>CONTAINS([Fruit],"Oranges")</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>
         <b>Complex expressions</b>
      </p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
      OR(([Price]*[Quantity])&gt;$10,000.00,[Price]&gt;$100.00) </li>
      
         <li>
      OR(CONTAINS([Fruit],"Oranges"),CONTAINS([Fruit],"Apples"),CONTAINS([Fruit],"Bananas"))</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
         <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">
            <b>Yes/No
    expression patterns and examples</b>
         </ph>
      </p>
      <p>From the <b>Expression Builder,</b> follow the
    pattern below for a True/False, i.e. Yes/No result. See
    examples for further clarity.</p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216188008-Math-expressions.dita">Math
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211326838-Expressions.dita">Expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216188178-Columns-expressions.dita">Columns
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216188298-Other-expressions.dita">Other
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216748067-Time-expressions.dita">Time
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>