<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBGIAHBHIDRequiredDIf">
   <title>Required_If – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Expression
    components</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>These expression components utilize the following
    formatting:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Name any column using square brackets around the exact
      column name: [ColumnName]. When combining a
      [ColumnName] with another value, put the expression
      in (parentheses).</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use [_THIS] as a "virtual column name."
      It refers to the value of the current column (used
      in Valid_If, Show_If, Required_If conditions).</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use [_THISROW] as a "virtual reference
      column." It refers to the current row. For example, use
      [_THISROW].[ColumnName].</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Highlight all values with "quotes," except for
      numeric values: "Value".</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Numeric values are noted just as they are,
      e.g 10.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Required_If </ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>A 'required' input is one that must be filled in
    before the record can be saved. A Required_If column
    constraint is used when a field is 'required'
    depending on the values of earlier form inputs.</p>
      <p>A Required_If constraint is a condition expression that
    indicates whether a specific column is 'required' in an input
    form. It is usually based on the values of other columns
    (e.g. <i>[Country Of Birth] = "USA"</i>).</p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216807018-Show-If.dita">Show_If</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216807158-Valid-If-and-Dependent-Dropdowns.dita">Valid_If
        and Dependent Dropdowns</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211330018-Controlling-data-inputs-with-column-constraints.dita">
        Controlling data inputs with column constraints</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216188298-Other-expressions.dita">Other
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="205317858-AppSheet-is-NOT-.dita">AppSheet is
        NOT...</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>