<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBGIAHBFIDValidDIfDandDDependentDDropdowns">
   <title>Valid_If and Dependent Dropdowns – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Expression
    components</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>These expression components utilize the following
    formatting:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Name any column using square brackets around the exact
      column name: [ColumnName]. When combining a
      [ColumnName] with another value, put the expression
      in (parentheses).</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use [_THIS] as a "virtual column name."
      It refers to the value of the current column (used
      in Valid_If, Show_If, Required_If conditions).</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use [_THISROW] as a "virtual reference
      column." It refers to the current row. For example, use
      [_THISROW].[ColumnName].</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Highlight all values with "quotes," except for
      numeric values: "Value".</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Numeric values are noted just as they are,
      e.g 10.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Valid_If</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>Every input in a form is checked for validity based on its
    type. For example, a column of Number type will not accept
    "Hello" as an input. A Valid_If column constraint is used in
    situations where the validity of the input requires richer
    data-dependent logic.</p>
      <p>A Valid_If constraint is a condition expression that
    determines whether or not the form input for this
    column is valid. For example, the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/template/AppDef?appName=RateCalculator-71626.html" scope="external" format="html">Quote Calculator
    sample</xref> utilizes a Valid_If condition to ensure that
    the Cost Per Hour must be less than $20.</p>
      <p>Here are examples of commonly used Valid_If constraints:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Does the value of the column satisfy a simple condition?
        <ul>
          
               <li>For example, comparing the value with a
          constant: <!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-medium>-->
                  <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-medium">
                     <i>[_THIS] &gt;
          5</i>
                  </ph>
               </li>
          
               <li>For example, comparing the value with another
          column: <i>[_THIS] &gt; [ColumnA]</i>
               </li>
        
            </ul>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>Is the value of the column in a list?
        <ul>
          
               <li>A list of constant values. For
          example: <i>{100, 200, 300}</i>
               </li>
          
               <li>A list of values from a column in another
          table. For
          example: <i>LookupTable[ColumnC] . </i>This
          is particularly useful if the list of allowed values
          should itself be allowed to change while the app is being
          used.</li>
          
               <li>A list of values from specific rows in another table.
          For example: <i>SELECT(LookupTable[ColumnC],
          [ReportDate] &gt; Today() - 7) </i>specifies that
          the rows in LookupTable should be filtered to find those
          where ReportDate is within the last week, and the
          corresponding values in ColumnC of LookupTable become the
          allowed list of valid values.</li>
        
            </ul>
      
         </li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>Whenever a list of allowed values is provided, it is
    actually a syntactic shortform for an expression that uses the
    IN function. For example, <i>{100, 200,
    300} </i>is the same as <i>IN([_THIS], {100, 200,
    300}). </i>In input forms in the mobile app, columns
    with such Valid_If constraints are provided with dropdowns or
    enumeration selectors that reflect the list of choices.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Valid_If and
    Dependent Dropdowns</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>Dependent dropdowns are a common design pattern in apps that
    capture input. For example, consider an app like <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/samples/An-app-to-add-and-update-sales-leads?appGuidString=2f43eb0a-1dbf-417f-9e2d-ccb8b9600d02.html" scope="external" format="html">this
    Lead Tracker sample</xref> that asks for the 'Lead Region'
    (America, Asia, Europe) and then for a 'Country' within that
    region. This is actually requires relatively complex
    logic, but AppSheet tries to make it simple. Dependent
    dropdowns are driven by a separate lookup table.</p>
      <p>In the sample, there is a separate 'Regions' lookup table
    with two columns: 'Region' and 'Country'. This acts as the
    lookup table for allowed combinations of regions and
    countries. <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/template/showtable?allowExternalRedirect=false&amp;appName=DependentDropdowns-16350&amp;tableName=Regions.html" scope="external" format="html">Here
    is the table data</xref> used in the sample.</p>
      <p>The 'Lead Region' column has a regular Valid_If
    constraint: <i>Regions[Region]</i>. Therefore, when a
    new entry is being added, the input for this column shows three
    choices: America, Asia, and Europe.</p>
      <p>Likewise, the 'Country' column also specifies a
    similar Valid_If constraint: <i>Regions[Country]</i>.
    However, because it follows the 'Lead Region' column and
    because both specify columns from the same lookup table
    'Regions', AppSheet recognizes the intent and implements a
    dependent dropdown. </p>
      <p>Internally, AppSheet creates an expression to capture
    the allowed set of values for the 'Country' column. The
    expression must say (in English!):</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Look at the Regions table</li>
      
         <li>Filter the rows to make sure that the Region column of
      the table matches the value in the 'Lead Region' column of
      the row being edited in the form</li>
      
         <li>Now extract the 'Country' column from those filtered
      rows</li>
      
         <li>Eliminate any duplicates --- these are the allowed
      countries!</li>
      
         <li>Recompute this list each time the 'Lead Region' is
      changed</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p>Strictly for an expression afficionado, here is the full
    underlying AppSheet expression: <i>IN( [_THIS],
    SELECT(Regions[Country], [_THISROW].[Lead Region] =
    [Region]))</i>
      </p>
      <p>While most app creators will never need to express something
    this complicated, you could infact provide this expression as a
    Valid_If constraint. It is useful to know for advanced use
    cases. For example, instead of using an equality condition, an
    app creator could use inequality or richer expressions to build
    very expressive dynamic dropdowns.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216748117-Lists-expressions-and-Aggregates.dita">Lists
        expressions and Aggregates</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211330018-Controlling-data-inputs-with-column-constraints.dita">
        Controlling data inputs with column constraints</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="217383897-Valid-If.dita">Valid_If</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216807018-Show-If.dita">Show_If</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216188178-Columns-expressions.dita">Columns
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>