<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.1/OS/dtd/topic.dtd" ><topic xml:lang="en-us" id="CBHDIDIJHDValidDIf">
   <title>Valid_If – AppSheet</title>
   <body>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Expression
    components</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>These expression components utilize the following
    formatting:</p>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Name any column using square brackets around the exact
      column name: [ColumnName]. When combining a
      [ColumnName] with another value, put the expression
      in (parentheses). </li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use [_THIS] as a "virtual column name."
      It refers to the value of the current column (used
      in Valid_If, Show_If, Required_If conditions).</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Use [_THISROW] as a "virtual reference
      column." It refers to the current row. For example, use
      [_THISROW].[ColumnName].</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Highlight all values with "quotes," except for
      numeric values: "Value".</li>
    
      </ul>
      <ul>
      
         <li>Numeric values are noted just as they are,
      e.g 10.</li>
    
      </ul>
      <p> </p>
      <p>
         <b><!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-large>-->
            <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-large">Valid_If</ph>
         </b>
      </p>
      <p>Every input in a form is checked for validity based on its
    type. For example, a column of Number type will not accept
    "Hello" as an input. A Valid_If column constraint is used in
    situations where the validity of the input requires richer
    data-dependent logic.</p>
      <p>A Valid_If constraint is a condition expression that
    determines whether or not the form input for this
    column is valid. For example, the <xref href="https://www.appsheet.com/template/AppDef?appName=RateCalculator-71626.html" scope="external" format="html">Quote Calculator
    sample</xref> utilizes a Valid_If condition to ensure that
    the Cost Per Hour must be less than $20.</p>
      <p>Here are examples of commonly used Valid_If constraints:</p>
      <ol>
      
         <li>Does the value of the column satisfy a simple condition?
        <ul>
          
               <li>For example, comparing the value with a
          constant: <!--Original: <span @class=wysiwyg-font-size-medium>-->
                  <ph outputclass="wysiwyg-font-size-medium">
                     <i>[_THIS] &gt;
          5</i>
                  </ph>
               </li>
          
               <li>For example, comparing the value with another
          column: <i>[_THIS] &gt; [ColumnA]</i>
               </li>
        
            </ul>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>Is the value of the column in a list?
        <ul>
          
               <li>A list of constant values. For
          example: <i>{100, 200, 300}</i>
               </li>
          
               <li>A list of values from a column in another
          table. For
          example: <i>LookupTable[ColumnC] . </i>This
          is particularly useful if the list of allowed values
          should itself be allowed to change while the app is being
          used.</li>
          
               <li>A list of values from specific rows in another table.
          For example: <i>SELECT(LookupTable[ColumnC],
          [ReportDate] &gt; Today() - 7) </i>specifies that
          the rows in LookupTable should be filtered to find those
          where ReportDate is within the last week, and the
          corresponding values in ColumnC of LookupTable become the
          allowed list of valid values.</li>
        
            </ul>
      
         </li>
    
      </ol>
      <p>Whenever a list of allowed values is provided, it is
    actually a syntactic shortform for an expression that uses the
    IN function. For example, <i>{100, 200,
    300} </i>is the same as <i>IN([_THIS], {100, 200,
    300}). </i>In input forms in the mobile app, columns
    with such Valid_If constraints are provided with dropdowns or
    enumeration selectors that reflect the list of choices.</p>
      <p> </p>
      <p> </p>
      <section>
         <title>Related articles</title>
      </section>
      <ul>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216807158-Valid-If-and-Dependent-Dropdowns.dita">Valid_If
        and Dependent Dropdowns</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="211330018-Controlling-data-inputs-with-column-constraints.dita">
        Controlling data inputs with column constraints</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216188298-Other-expressions.dita">Other
        expressions</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216807018-Show-If.dita">Show_If</xref>
      
         </li>
      
         <li>
        
            <xref href="216807178-Required-If.dita">Required_If</xref>
      
         </li>
    
      </ul>
   </body>
   
</topic>