#  Modifying column structure in the editor


January 08, 2016 02:45

You can tweak the schema generated by AppSheet. But please do so carefully** **Column Name  
**There should rarely be a reason to change the field name. If the field name is not the same as the column header name in your spreadsheet, errors will occur. This capability is useful for advanced scenarios where the data comes from non-spreadsheet sources.  
  

  * **Column Type and Type Qualifier  
**There are approximately 20 different data types and we expect this to grow. ([You can find the official list here.](Column-types.md)) The choice of data type affects the behavior of this field in the app. For example, you might want a particular text column to be a 'LONGTEXT', or a particular image column to be a 'THUMBNAIL'.  
  

  * **App Formula  
**App formulas are expressions that are automatically computed in the app to populate the value of a column. This is not to be confused with spreadsheet formulas, which are computed in the backend spreadsheet.  
  

  * **Primary Key  
**Keys should be chosen with care, as discussed in an earlier section. Please note that only one column can be a key. You will find composite columns at the bottom of the column list, and one of them may also be chosen as a key.  
  

  * **Read-Only, Hidden, and Required  
**Individual fields may be marked read-only to prevent updates in the app, hidden to prevent display, or required to mandate entry.  
  

  * **Column Description  
**The description, if provided, is shown to the user instead of the field name in forms. It is automatically populated from comments on the column header cells in the spreadsheet.  
  

  * **Default Value**: when a new entry is created in the app, the fields are populated with default values that are typically constants but can be any supported [expression](Expressions.md) that matches the expected column type.   
  

  * **Searchable  
**Indicates that a column should participate in the search function. By default, most text-based columns do participate in search, but content columns (like images) do not.  
  

  * **Scannable  
**Indicates that a column can be filled by scanning a barcode or QRCode. By default, no column is scannable unless explicitly indicated.  
  

  * **Sheet Formula  
**Indicates a formula on the backend spreadsheet that is calculated (and the result shown in the app) once the user hits "Save" (or "Sync" if the app is set to "Delayed Sync").


## Related articles {.section}

  * [Column types](Column-types.md)
  * [App formulas](App-formulas.md)
  * [Defining and using slices](Defining-and-using-slices.md)
  * [Specifying a key](Specifying-a-key.md)
  * [Multi-page forms with conditional branching](Multi-page-forms-with-conditional-branching.md)

